=== WIKIPEDIA CONTENT ===
--- Audi ---
Audi AG is a German automotive manufacturer of luxury vehicles headquartered in Ingolstadt, Bavaria, Germany. A wholly owned subsidiary of the Volkswagen Group, Audi produces vehicles in nine production facilities worldwide.
The origins of the company are complex, dating back to the early 20th century and the initial enterprises (Horch and the Audiwerke) founded by engineer August Horch. Two other manufacturers (DKW and Wanderer) also contributed to the foundation of Auto Union in 1932. The modern Audi era began in the 1960s, when Auto Union was acquired by Volkswagen from Daimler-Benz. Volkswagen relaunched the Audi brand with the 1965 introduction of the Audi F103 series, and merged Auto Union with NSU Motorenwerke in 1969, thus creating the present-day form of the company.
The company name is based on the Latin translation of the surname of the founder, August Horch. Horch, meaning 'listen' in German, becomes audi in Latin. The four rings of the Audi logo each represent one of four car companies that banded together to create Audi's predecessor company, Auto Union. Audi's slogan is Vorsprung durch Technik, which is translated as 'Progress through Technology'. Audi became a sister to Dr. Ing. h.c. F. Porsche AG (more commonly known as Porsche AG) following Volkswagen Group's 100% acquisition of the latter in 2012, and along with German brands BMW and Mercedes-Benz, is among the best-selling luxury automobile brands in the world.
History
Birth of the company and its name
Automobile company Wanderer was originally established in 1885, later becoming a branch of Audi AG. Another company, NSU, which also later merged into Audi, was founded during this time, and later supplied the chassis for Gottlieb Daimler's four-wheeler.
On 14 November 1899, August Horch (1868–1951) established the company A. Horch & Cie. in the Ehrenfeld district of Cologne. In 1902, he moved with his company to Reichenbach im Vogtland. On 10 May 1904, he founded the August Horch & Cie. Motorwagenwerke AG, a joint-stock company in Zwickau (State of Saxony).
After troubles with the Horch chief financial officer, August Horch left Motorwagenwerke and founded in Zwickau on 16 July 1909, his second company, the August Horch Automobilwerke GmbH. His former partners sued him for trademark infringement. The German Reichsgericht (Supreme Court) in Leipzig eventually determined that the Horch brand belonged to his former company.
Since August Horch was prohibited from using horch as a trade name in his new car business, he called a meeting with close business friends, Paul and Franz Fikentscher from Zwickau. At the apartment of Franz Fikentscher, they discussed how to come up with a new name for the company. During this meeting, Franz's son was quietly studying Latin in a corner of the room. Several times he looked like he was on the verge of saying something but would just swallow his words and continue working, until he finally blurted out, "Father – audiatur et altera pars... wouldn't it be a good idea to call it audi instead of horch?". Horch in German means 'hark' or 'hear', which is audi in the singular imperative form of audire—'to listen'—in Latin. The idea was enthusiastically accepted by everyone attending the meeting. On 25 April 1910 the Audi Automobilwerke GmbH Zwickau (from 1915 on Audiwerke AG Zwickau) was entered in the company's register of Zwickau registration court.
The first Audi automobile, the Audi Type A 10/22 hp (16 kW) Sport-Phaeton, was produced in the same year, followed by the successor Type B 10/28PS in the same year.
Audi started with a 2,612 cc straight-four engine model Type A, followed by a 3,564 cc model, as well as 4,680 cc and 5,720 cc models. These cars were successful even in sporting events. The first six-cylinder model Type M, 4,655 cc appeared in 1924.
August Horch left the Audiwerke in 1920 for a high position at the ministry of transport, but he was still involved with Audi as a member of the board of trustees. In September 1921, Audi became the first German car manufacturer to present a production car, the Audi Type K, with left-handed drive. Left-hand drive spread and established dominance during the 1920s because it provided a better view of oncoming traffic, making overtaking safer when driving on the right.
The merger of the four companies under the logo of four rings
In August 1928, Jørgen Rasmussen, the owner of Dampf-Kraft-Wagen (DKW), acquired the majority of shares in Audiwerke AG. In the same year, Rasmussen bought the remains of the U.S. automobile manufacturer Rickenbacker, including the manufacturing equipment for 8-cylinder engines. These engines were used in Audi Zwickau and Audi Dresden models that were launched in 1929. At the same time, 6-cylinder and 4-cylinder (the "four" with a Peugeot engine) models were manufactured. Audi cars of that era were luxurious cars equipped with special bodywork.
In 1932, Audi merged with Horch, DKW, and Wanderer, to form Auto Union AG, Chemnitz. It was during this period that the company offered the Audi Front that became the first European car to combine a six-cylinder engine with front-wheel drive. It used a power train shared with the Wanderer, but turned 180 degrees, so that the drive shaft faced the front.
Before World War II, Auto Union used the four interlinked rings that make up the Audi badge today, representing these four brands. However, this badge was used only on Auto Union racing cars in that period while the member companies used their own names and emblems. The technological development became more and more concentrated and some Audi models were propelled by Horch- or Wanderer-built engines.
Reflecting the economic pressures of the time, Auto Union concentrated increasingly on smaller cars through the 1930s, so that by 1938 the company's DKW brand accounted for 17.9% of the German car market, while Audi held only 0.1%. After the final few Audis were delivered in 1939 the "Audi" name disappeared completely from the new car market for more than two decades.
World War II
Richard Bruhn, a Nazi party member, was Auto Union's chairman of the board from 1932 to 1945 and then again after the war when the company was reestablished. In 2014 Audi became the last major German car company, after Volkswagen, BMW and Daimler, to commission a study of their wartime activities. The investigation found that the company worked with the SS to build seven labor camps where more than 3,700 prisoners were put to work for Auto Union. In addition, 16,500 more people were forced to work at the company's factories in Zwickau and Chemnitz, and another 18,000 at an underground plant in Bavaria where 4,500 people died.
Some of the company's factories were bombed by the Allies.
Post-World War II
With no prospect of continuing production in Soviet-controlled East Germany, Auto Union executives began the process of relocating what was left of the company to West Germany. A site was chosen in Ingolstadt, Bavaria, to start a spare parts operation in late 1945, which would eventually serve as the headquarters of the reformed Auto Union in 1949.
On 17 August 1948, Auto Union AG of Chemnitz was deleted from the commercial register. These actions had the effect of liquidating Germany's Auto Union AG. The remains of the Audi plant of Zwickau became the VEB (for "People Owned Enterprise") Automobilwerk Zwickau or AWZ (in English: Automobile Works Zwickau).
The former Audi factory in Zwickau restarted assembly of the pre-war models in 1949. These DKW models were renamed to IFA F8 and IFA F9 and were similar to the West German versions. West and East German models were equipped with the traditional and renowned DKW two-stroke engines. The Zwickau plant later manufactured the infamous Trabant until 1991, after it was acquired by the Volkswagen Group following the reunification of Germany, and has since been substantially rebuilt. In 2021, production of the Audi Q4 e-tron began at the plant, marking the return of Audis being manufactured at Zwickau after over 80 years.
New Auto Union unit
A new West German headquartered Auto Union was launched in Ingolstadt with loans from the Bavarian state government and Marshall Plan aid. The reformed company was launched 3 September 1949 and continued DKW's tradition of producing front-wheel drive vehicles with two-stroke engines. This included production of a small but sturdy 125 cc motorcycle, the DKW RT 125 W and a DKW delivery van, the DKW F89 L at Ingolstadt. The Ingolstadt site was large, consisting of an extensive complex of formerly military buildings which was suitable for administration as well as vehicle warehousing and distribution, but at this stage there was at Ingolstadt no dedicated plant suitable for mass production of automobiles: for manufacturing the company's first post-war mass-market passenger car plant capacity in Düsseldorf was rented from Rheinmetall-Borsig. It was only ten years later, after the company had attracted an investor, when funds became available for construction of major car plant at the Ingolstadt head office site.
In 1958, in response to pressure from Friedrich Flick, then the company's largest single shareholder, Daimler-Benz took an 87% holding in the Auto Union company, and this was increased to a 100% holding in 1959. However, small two-stroke cars were not the focus of Daimler-Benz's interests, and while the early 1960s saw major investment in new Mercedes models and in a state of the art factory for Auto Union's, the company's aging model range at this time did not benefit from the economic boom of the early 1960s to the same extent as competitor manufacturers such as Volkswagen and Opel. The decision to dispose of the Auto Union business was based on its lack of profitability. Ironically, by the time they sold the business, it also included a large new factory and near production-ready modern four-stroke engine, which would enable the Auto Union business, under a new owner, to embark on a period of profitable growth, now producing not Auto Unions or DKWs, but using the "Audi" name, resurrected in 1965 after a 25-year gap.
In 1964, Volkswagen acquired a 50% holding in the business, which included the new factory in Ingolstadt, the DKW and Audi brands along with the rights to the new engine design which had been funded by Daimler-Benz, who in return retained the dormant Horch trademark and the Düsseldorf factory which became a Mercedes-Benz van assembly plant. Eighteen months later, Volkswagen bought complete control of Ingolstadt, and by 1966 were using the spare capacity of the Ingolstadt plant to assemble an additional 60,000 Volkswagen Beetles per year. Two-stroke engines became less popular during the 1960s as customers were more attracted to the smoother four-stroke engines. In September 1965, the DKW F102 was fitted with a four-stroke engine and a facelift for the car's front and rear. Volkswagen dumped the DKW brand because of its associations with two-stroke technology, and having classified the model internally as the F103, sold it simply as the "Audi". Later developments of the model were named after their horsepower ratings and sold as the Audi 60, 75, 80, and Super 90, selling until 1972. Initially, Volkswagen was hostile to the idea of Auto Union as a standalone entity producing its own models having acquired the company merely to boost its own production capacity through the Ingolstadt assembly plant—to the point where Volkswagen executives ordered that the Auto Union name and flags bearing the four rings were removed from the factory buildings. Then VW chief Heinz Nordhoff explicitly forbade Auto Union from any further product development. Fearing that Volkswagen had no long-term ambition for the Audi brand, Auto Union engineers under the leadership of Ludwig Kraus developed the first Audi 100 in secret, without Nordhoff's knowledge. When presented with a finished prototype, Nordhoff was so impressed he authorised the car for production, which when launched in 1968, went on to be a huge success. With this, the resurrection of the Audi brand was now complete, this being followed by the first generation Audi 80 in 1972, which would in turn provide a template for VW's new front-wheel-drive water-cooled range which debuted from the mid-1970s onward.
In 1969, Auto Union merged with NSU, based in Neckarsulm, near Stuttgart. In the 1950s, NSU had been the world's largest manufacturer of motorcycles, but had moved on to produce small cars like the NSU Prinz, the TT and TTS versions of which are still popular as vintage race cars. NSU then focused on new rotary engines based on the ideas of Felix Wankel. In 1967, the new NSU Ro 80 was a car well ahead of its time in technical details such as aerodynamics, light weight, and safety. However, teething problems with the rotary engines put an end to the independence of NSU. The Neckarsulm plant is now used to produce the larger Audi models A6 and A8. The Neckarsulm factory is also home of the "quattro GmbH" (from November 2016 "Audi Sport GmbH"), a subsidiary responsible for development and production of Audi high-performance models: the R8 and the RS model range.
Modern era
The new merged company was incorporated on 1 January 1969 and was known as Audi NSU Auto Union AG, with its headquarters at NSU's Neckarsulm plant, and saw the emergence of Audi as a separate brand for the first time since the pre-war era. Volkswagen introduced the Audi brand to the United States for the 1970 model year. That same year, the mid-sized car that NSU had been working on, the K70, originally intended to slot between the rear-engined Prinz models and the futuristic NSU Ro 80, was instead launched as a Volkswagen.
After the launch of the Audi 100 of 1968, the Audi 80/Fox (which formed the basis for the 1973 Volkswagen Passat) followed in 1972 and the Audi 50 (later rebadged as the Volkswagen Polo) in 1974. The Audi 50 was a seminal design because it was the first incarnation of the Golf/Polo concept, one that led to a hugely successful world car. Ultimately, the Audi 80 and 100 (progenitors of the A4 and A6, respectively) became the company's biggest sellers, whilst little investment was made in the fading NSU range; the Prinz models were dropped in 1973 whilst the fatally flawed NSU Ro80 went out of production in 1977, spelling the effective end of the NSU brand. Production of the Audi 100 had been steadily moved from Ingolstadt to Neckarsulm as the 1970s had progressed, and by the appearance of the second generation C2 version in 1976, all production was now at the former NSU plant. Neckarsulm from that point onward would produce Audi's higher-end models.
The Audi image at this time was a conservative one, and so, a proposal from chassis engineer Jörg Bensinger was accepted to develop the four-wheel drive technology in Volkswagen's Iltis military vehicle for an Audi performance car and rally racing car. The performance car, introduced in 1980, was named the "Audi Quattro", a turbocharged coupé which was also the first German large-scale production vehicle to feature permanent all-wheel drive through a centre differential. Commonly referred to as the "Ur-Quattro" (the "Ur-" prefix is a German augmentative used, in this case, to mean 'original' and is also applied to the first generation of Audi's S4 and S6 Sport Saloons, as in "UrS4" and "UrS6"), few of these vehicles were produced (all hand-built by a single team), but the model was a great success in rallying. Prominent wins proved the viability of all-wheel-drive racecars, and the Audi name became associated with advances in automotive technology.
In 1985, with the Auto Union and NSU brands effectively dead, the company's official name was now shortened to simply Audi AG. At the same time the company's headquarters moved back to Ingolstadt and two new wholly owned subsidiaries; Auto Union GmbH and NSU GmbH, were formed to own and manage the historical trademarks and intellectual property of the original constituent companies (the exception being Horch, which had been retained by Daimler-Benz after the VW takeover), and to operate Audi's heritage operations.
In 1986, as the Passat-based Audi 80 was beginning to develop a kind of "grandfather's car" image, the type 89 was introduced. This completely new development sold extremely well. However, its modern and dynamic exterior belied the low performance of its base engine, and its base package was quite spartan (even the passenger-side mirror was an option). In 1987, Audi put forward a new and very elegant Audi 90, which had a much superior set of standard features. In the early 1990s, sales began to slump for the Audi 80 series, and some basic construction problems started to surface.
Through the early 1990s, Audi began to shift its target market upscale to compete against German automakers Mercedes-Benz and BMW. This began with the release of the Audi V8 in 1990. It was essentially a new engine fitted to the Audi 100/200, but with noticeable bodywork differences. Most obvious was the new grille that was now incorporated in the bonnet.
By 1991, Audi had the four-cylinder Audi 80, the 5-cylinder Audi 90 and Audi 100, the turbocharged Audi 200 and the Audi V8. There was also a coupé version of the 80/90 with both four- and five-cylinder engines.
Although the five-cylinder engine was a successful and robust powerplant, it was still a little too different for the target market. With the introduction of an all-new Audi 100 in 1992, Audi introduced a 2.8L V6 engine. This engine was also fitted to a face-lifted Audi 80 (all 80 and 90 models were now badged 80 except for the USA), giving this model a choice of four-, five-, and six-cylinder engines, in saloon, coupé and convertible body styles.
The five-cylinder was soon dropped as a major engine choice; however, a turbocharged 220 PS (160 kW; 220 hp) version remained. The engine, initially fitted to the 200 quattro 20V of 1991, was a derivative of the engine fitted to the Sport Quattro. It was fitted to the Audi Coupé, named the S2, and also to the Audi 100 body, and named the S4. These two models were the beginning of the mass-produced S series of performance cars.
Audi 5000 unintended acceleration allegations
Sales in the United States fell after a series of recalls from 1982 to 1987 of Audi 5000 models associated with reported incidents of sudden unintended acceleration linked to six deaths and 700 accidents. At the time, NHTSA was investigating 50 car models from 20 manufacturers for sudden surges of power.
A 60 Minutes report aired 23 November 1986, featuring interviews with six people who had sued Audi after reporting unintended acceleration, showing an Audi 5000 ostensibly suffering a problem when the brake pedal was pushed. Subsequent investigation revealed that 60 Minutes had engineered the failure—fitting a canister of compressed air on the passenger-side floor, linked via a hose to a hole drilled into the transmission.
Audi contended, prior to findings by outside investigators, that the problems were caused by driver error, specifically pedal misapplication. Subsequently, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) concluded that the majority of unintended acceleration cases, including all the ones that prompted the 60 Minutes report, were caused by driver error such as confusion of pedals. CBS did not acknowledge the test results of involved government agencies, but did acknowledge the similar results of another study.
In a review study published in 2012, NHTSA summarized its past findings about the Audi unintended acceleration problems: "Once an unintended acceleration had begun, in the Audi 5000, due to a failure in the idle-stabilizer system (producing an initial acceleration of 0.3g), pedal misapplication resulting from panic, confusion, or unfamiliarity with the Audi 5000 contributed to the severity of the incident."
This summary is consistent with the conclusions of NHTSA's most technical analysis at the time: "Audi idle-stabilization systems were prone to defects which resulted in excessive idle speeds and brief unanticipated accelerations of up to 0.3g . These accelerations could not be the sole cause of , but might have triggered some SAIs by startling the driver. The defective idle-stabilization system performed a type of electronic throttle control. Significantly: multiple "intermittent malfunctions of the electronic control unit were observed and recorded ... and  reported by Transport Canada."
With a series of recall campaigns, Audi made several modifications; the first adjusted the distance between the brake and accelerator pedal on automatic-transmission models. Later repairs, of 250,000 cars dating back to 1978, added a device requiring the driver to press the brake pedal before shifting out of park. A legacy of the Audi 5000 and other reported cases of sudden unintended acceleration are intricate gear stick patterns and brake interlock mechanisms to prevent inadvertent shifting into forward or reverse. It is unclear how the defects in the idle-stabilization system were addressed.
Audi's U.S. sales, which had reached 74,061 in 1985, dropped to 12,283 in 1991 and remained level for three years,—with resale values falling dramatically. Audi subsequently offered increased warranty protection and renamed the affected models—with the 5000 becoming the 100 and 200 in 1989—and reached the same sales levels again only by model year 2000.
A 2010 BusinessWeek article—outlining possible parallels between Audi's experience and 2009–2010 Toyota vehicle recalls—noted a class-action lawsuit filed in 1987 by about 7,500 Audi 5000-model owners remains unsettled and remains contested in Chicago's Cook County after appeals at the Illinois state and U.S. federal levels.
Model introductions
In the mid-to-late 1990s, Audi introduced new technologies including the use of aluminium construction. Produced from 1999 to 2005, the Audi A2 was a futuristic super mini, born from the Al2 concept, with many features that helped regain consumer confidence, like the aluminium space frame, which was a first in production car design. In the A2 Audi further expanded their TDI technology through the use of frugal three-cylinder engines. The A2 was extremely aerodynamic and was designed around a wind tunnel. The Audi A2 was criticised for its high price and was never really a sales success but it planted Audi as a cutting-edge manufacturer. The model, a Mercedes-Benz A-Class competitor, sold relatively well in Europe. However, the A2 was discontinued in 2005 and Audi decided not to develop an immediate replacement.
The next major model change came in 1995 when the Audi A4 replaced the Audi 80. The new nomenclature scheme was applied to the Audi 100 to become the Audi A6 (with a minor facelift). This also meant the S4 became the S6 and a new S4 was introduced in the A4 body. The S2 was discontinued. The Audi Cabriolet continued on (based on the Audi 80 platform) until 1999, gaining the engine upgrades along the way. A new A3 hatchback model (sharing the Volkswagen Golf Mk4's platform) was introduced to the range in 1996, and the radical Audi TT coupé and roadster were debuted in 1998 based on the same underpinnings.
The petrol engines available throughout the range were now a 1.4 L, 1.6 L and 1.8 L four-cylinder, 1.8 L four-cylinder turbo, 2.6 L and 2.8 L V6, 2.2 L turbo-charged five-cylinder and the 4.2 L V8 engine. The V6s were replaced by new 2.4 L and 2.8 L 30V V6s in 1998, with marked improvement in power, torque and smoothness. Further engines were added along the way, including a 3.7 L V8 and 6.0 L W12 engine for the A8.
Audi AG today
Audi's sales grew strongly in the 2000s, with deliveries to customers increasing from 653,000 in 2000 to 1,003,000 in 2008. The largest sales increases came from Eastern Europe (+19.3%), Africa (+17.2%) and the Middle East (+58.5%). China in particular has become a key market, representing 108,000 out of 705,000 cars delivered in the first three quarters of 2009. One factor for its popularity in China is that Audis have become the car of choice for purchase by the Chinese government for officials, and purchases by the government are responsible for 20% of its sales in China. As of late 2009, Audi's operating profit of €1.17 billion ($1.85 billion) made it the biggest contributor to parent Volkswagen Group's nine-month operating profit of €1.5 billion, while the other marques in Group such as Bentley and SEAT had suffered considerable losses. May 2011 saw record sales for Audi of America with the new Audi A7 and Audi A3 TDI Clean Diesel. In May 2012, Audi reported a 10% increase in its sales—from 408 units to 480 in the last year alone.
Audi manufactures vehicles in seven plants around the world, some of which are shared with other VW Group marques although many sub-assemblies such as engines and transmissions are manufactured within other Volkswagen Group plants.
Audi's two principal assembly plants in Germany are:
Ingolstadt, the former Auto Union site originally opened in 1945 and substantially rebuilt by Daimler-Benz in 1962, and acquired by Volkswagen in 1964 (Q2, A3, A6 e-tron, Q6 e-tron)
Neckarsulm, the former NSU plant, acquired by Volkswagen in 1969. Home of Audi Sport GmbH (A5, A6, A7, A8) - a satellite plant at nearby Böllinger Höfe produces the e-tron GT
Audi also produces vehicles in Germany at:
Zwickau, the birthplace of Audi. The former Trabant factory, acquired by Volkswagen in 1990 to form Volkswagen Sachsen (Q4 e-tron)
Outside of Germany, Audi produces vehicles at:
Anting, China. A joint venture with SAIC
Aurangabad, India. Škoda Auto Volkswagen India factory
Bratislava, Slovakia. Volkswagen Slovakia factory (Q7 and Q8)
Changchun, China. A joint venture with FAW
Foshan, China. A joint venture with FAW
Győr, Hungary (Q3)
Martorell, Spain. A SEAT factory (A1)
Ningbo, China. A joint venture with SAIC
Qingdao, China. A joint venture with FAW
San José Chiapa, Mexico (Q5)
São José dos Pinhais, Brazil
Tianjin, China. A joint venture with FAW
In September 2012, Audi announced the construction of its first North American manufacturing plant in Puebla, Mexico. This plant became operative in 2016 and produces the second generation Q5.
From 2002 up to 2003, Audi headed the Audi Brand Group, a subdivision of the Volkswagen Group's Automotive Division consisting of Audi, Lamborghini and SEAT, which was focused on sporty values, with the marques' product vehicles and performance being under the higher responsibility of the Audi brand.
In January 2014, Audi, along with the Wireless Power Consortium, operated a booth which demonstrated a phone compartment using the Qi open interface standard at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES). In May, most of the Audi dealers in the UK falsely claimed that the Audi A7, A8, and R8 were Euro NCAP safety tested, all achieving five out of five stars. In fact none were tested.
In 2015, Audi admitted that at least 2.1 million Audi cars had been involved in the Volkswagen emissions testing scandal in which software installed in the cars manipulated emissions data to fool regulators and allow the cars to pollute at higher than government-mandated levels. The A1, A3, A4, A5, A6, TT, Q3 and Q5 models were implicated in the scandal. Audi promised to quickly find a technical solution and upgrade the cars so they can function within emissions regulations. Ulrich Hackenberg, the head of research and development at Audi, was suspended in relation to the scandal. Despite widespread media coverage about the scandal through the month of September, Audi reported that U.S. sales for the month had increased by 16.2%. Audi's parent company Volkswagen announced on 18 June 2018 that Audi chief executive Rupert Stadler had been arrested.
In November 2015, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency implicated the 3-liter diesel engine versions of the 2016 Audi A6 Quattro, A7 Quattro, A8, A8L and the Q5 as further models that had emissions regulation defeat-device software installed. Thus, these models emitted nitrogen oxide at up to nine times the legal limit when the car detected that it was not hooked up to emissions testing equipment.
In November 2016, Audi expressed an intention to establish an assembly factory in Pakistan, with the company's local partner acquiring land for a plant in Korangi Creek Industrial Park in Karachi. Approval of the plan would lead to an investment of $30 million in the new plant. Audi planned to cut 9,500 jobs in Germany starting from 2020 till 2025 to fund electric vehicles and digital working.
In February 2020, Volkswagen AG announced that it plans to take over all Audi shares it does not own (totalling 0.36%) via a squeeze-out according to German stock corporation law, thus making Audi a fully owned subsidiary of the Volkswagen Group. This change took effect from 16 November 2020, when Audi became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Volkswagen Group.
In January 2021, Audi announced that it is planning to sell one million vehicles in China in 2023, comparing to 726,000 vehicles in 2020.
In March 2026, the company announced its plan to put the Audi A2 e-tron on sale in 2026 as a small, electric car. The car will follow the shape of the original A2, which was produced from 1999 until 2005.
Leadership
Wolfgang R. Habbel (1979–1988)
Ferdinand Piëch (1988–1993)
Franz-Josef Kortüm (1993–1994)
Herbert Demel (1994–1998)
Franz-Josef Paefgen (1998–2002)
Martin Winterkorn (2002–2006)
Rupert Stadler (2006–2018) (Arrested in connection with the Volkswagen emissions scandal)
Abraham Schoot (2018–2020)
Markus Duesmann (2020–2023)
Gernot Döllner (2023–present)
Technology
Audi AI
Audi AI is a driver assist feature offered by Audi. The company's stated intent is to offer fully autonomous driving at a future time, acknowledging that legal, regulatory and technical hurdles must be overcome to achieve this goal. On 4 June 2017, Audi stated that its new A8 will be fully self-driving for speeds up to 60 km/h using its Audi AI. Contrary to other cars, the driver will not have to do safety checks such as touching the steering wheel every 15 seconds to use this feature. The Audi A8 will therefore be the first production car to reach level 3 autonomous driving, meaning that the driver can safely turn their attention away from driving tasks, e.g. the driver can text or watch a movie. Audi will also be the first manufacturer to use a 3D Lidar system in addition to cameras and ultrasonic sensors for their AI.
Bodyshells
Audi produces 100% galvanised cars to prevent corrosion, and was the first mass-market vehicle to do so, following introduction of the process by Porsche, c. 1975. Along with other precautionary measures, the full-body zinc coating has proved to be very effective in preventing rust. The body's resulting durability even surpassed Audi's own expectations, causing the manufacturer to extend its original 10-year warranty against corrosion perforation to currently 12 years (except for aluminium bodies which do not rust).
Space Frame
Audi introduced a new series of vehicles in the mid-1990s and continues to pursue new technology and high performance. An all-aluminium car was brought forward by Audi, and in 1994 the Audi A8 was launched, which introduced aluminium space frame technology (called Audi Space Frame or ASF) which saves weight and improves torsion rigidity compared to a conventional steel frame. Prior to that effort, Audi used examples of the Type 44 chassis fabricated out of aluminium as test-beds for the technique. The disadvantage of the aluminium frame is that it is very expensive to repair and requires a specialized aluminium bodyshop. The weight reduction is somewhat offset by the quattro four-wheel drive system which is standard in most markets. Nonetheless, the A8 is usually the lightest all-wheel drive car in the full-size luxury segment, also having best-in-class fuel economy. The Audi A2, Audi TT and Audi R8 also use Audi Space Frame designs.
Drivetrains
Layout
For most of its lineup (excluding the A3, A1, and TT models), Audi has not adopted the transverse engine layout which is typically found in economy cars (such as Peugeot and Citroën), since that would limit the type and power of engines that can be installed. To be able to mount powerful engines (such as a V8 engine in the Audi S4 and Audi RS4, as well as the W12 engine in the Audi A8L W12), Audi has usually engineered its more expensive cars with a longitudinally front-mounted engine, in an "overhung" position, over the front wheels in front of the axle line—this layout dates back to the DKW and Auto Union saloons from the 1950s. But while this allows for the easy adoption of all-wheel drive, it goes against the ideal 50:50 weight distribution.
In all its post Volkswagen era models, Audi has firmly refused to adopt the traditional rear-wheel drive layout favored by its two archrivals Mercedes-Benz and BMW, favoring either front-wheel drive or all-wheel drive. The majority of Audi's lineup in the United States features all-wheel drive standard on most of its expensive vehicles (only the entry-level trims of the A4 and A6 are available with front-wheel drive), in contrast to Mercedes-Benz and BMW whose lineup treats all-wheel drive as an option. BMW did not offer all-wheel drive on its V8-powered cars (as opposed to crossover SUVs) until the 2010 BMW 7 Series and 2011 BMW 5 Series, while the Audi A8 has had all-wheel drive available/standard since the 1990s. Regarding high-performance variants, Audi S and RS models have always had all-wheel drive, unlike their direct rivals from BMW M and Mercedes-AMG whose cars are rear-wheel drive only (although their performance crossover SUVs are all-wheel drive).
Audi has recently applied the quattro badge to models such as the A3 and TT which do not use the Torsen-based system as in prior years with a mechanical center differential, but with the Haldex Traction electro-mechanical clutch AWD system.
Engines
Prior to the introduction of the Audi 80 and Audi 50 in 1972 and 1974, respectively, Audi had led the development of the EA111 and EA827 inline-four engine families. These new power units underpinned the water-cooled revival of parent company Volkswagen (in the Polo, Golf, Passat and Scirocco), whilst the many derivatives and descendants of these two basic engine designs have appeared in every generation of VW Group vehicles right up to the present day.
In the 1980s, Audi, along with Volvo, was the champion of the inline-five cylinder, 2.1/2.2 L engine as a longer-lasting alternative to more traditional six-cylinder engines. This engine was used not only in production cars but also in their race cars. The 2.1 L inline five-cylinder engine was used as a base for the rally cars in the 1980s, providing well over 400 horsepower (300 kilowatts) after modification. Before 1990, there were engines produced with a displacement between 2.0 L and 2.3 L. This range of engine capacity allowed for both fuel economy and power.
For the ultra-luxury version of its Audi A8 fullsize luxury flagship sedan, the Audi A8L W12, Audi uses the Volkswagen Group W12 engine instead of the conventional V12 engine favored by rivals Mercedes-Benz and BMW. The W12 engine configuration (also known as a "WR12") is created by forming two imaginary narrow-angle 15° VR6 engines at an angle of 72°, and the narrow angle of each set of cylinders allows just two overhead camshafts to drive each pair of banks, so just four are needed in total. The advantage of the W12 engine is its compact packaging, allowing Audi to build a 12-cylinder sedan with all-wheel drive, whereas a conventional V12 engine could have only a rear-wheel drive configuration as it would have no space in the engine bay for a differential and other components required to power the front wheels. In fact, the 6.0 L W12 in the Audi A8L W12 is smaller in overall dimensions than the 4.2 L V8 that powers the Audi A8 4.2 variants. The 2011 Audi A8 debuted a revised 6.3-litre version of the W12 (WR12) engine with 500 PS (370 kW; 490 hp).
Fuel Stratified Injection
New models of the A3, A4, A6 and A8 have been introduced, with the ageing 1.8-litre engine now having been replaced by new Fuel Stratified Injection (FSI) engines. Nearly every petroleum burning model in the range now incorporates this fuel-saving technology.
Direct-Shift Gearbox
In 2003, Volkswagen introduced the Direct-Shift Gearbox (DSG), a type of dual-clutch transmission. It is a type of automatic transmission, drivable like a conventional torque converter automatic transmission. Based on the gearbox found in the Group B S1, the system includes dual electro-hydraulically controlled clutches instead of a torque converter. This is implemented in some VW Golfs, Audi A3, Audi A4 and TT models where DSG is called S-Tronic.
LED daytime running lights
Beginning in 2005, Audi has implemented white LED technology as daytime running lights (DRL) in their products. The distinctive shape of the DRLs has become a trademark of sorts. LEDs were first introduced on the Audi A8 W12, the world's first production car to have LED DRLs, and have since spread throughout the entire model range. The LEDs are present on some Audi billboards.
Since 2010, Audi has also offered the LED technology in low- and high-beam headlights.
Multi Media Interface
Starting with the 2003 Audi A8, Audi has used a centralised control interface for its on-board infotainment systems, called Multi Media Interface (MMI). It is essentially a rotating control knob and 'segment' buttons—designed to control all in-car entertainment devices (radio, CD changer, iPod, TV tuner), satellite navigation, heating and ventilation, and other car controls with a screen.
The availability of MMI has gradually filtered down the Audi lineup, and following its introduction on the third generation A3 in 2011, MMI is now available across the entire range. It has been generally well received, as it requires less menu-surfing with its segment buttons around a central knob, along with 'main function' direct access buttons—with shortcuts to the radio or phone functions. The colour screen is mounted on the upright dashboard, and on the A4 (new), A5, A6, A8, and Q7, the controls are mounted horizontally.
Synthetic fuels
Audi has assisted with technology to produce synthetic diesel from water and carbon dioxide. Audi calls the synthetic diesel E-diesel. It is also working on synthetic gasoline (which it calls E-gasoline). Though in 2022, Audi's technical development chief said "synthetic fuels are just a bridging technology for us".
Logistics
Audi uses scanning gloves for parts registration during assembly, and automatic robots to transfer cars from factory to rail cars.
Models
Current model range
The following tables list Audi production vehicles that are sold as of 2026:
S and RS models
Electric vehicles
Audi is planning an alliance with the Japanese electronics giant Sanyo to develop a pilot hybrid electric project for the Volkswagen Group. The alliance could result in Sanyo batteries and other electronic components being used in future models of the Volkswagen Group. Concept electric vehicles unveiled to date include the Audi A1 Sportback Concept, Audi A4 TDI Concept E, and the fully electric Audi e-tron Concept Supercar.
Self-driving cars
In December 2018, Audi announced to invest 14 billion Euro ($15.9 billion) in e-mobility, self-driving cars.
Production figures
Figures for different body types/versions of models have been merged to create overall figures for each model.
Motorsport
Audi has competed in various forms of motorsports. Audi's tradition in motorsport began with their former company Auto Union in the 1930s. In the 1990s, Audi found success in the Touring and Super Touring categories of motor racing after success in circuit racing in North America.
Rallying
In 1980, Audi released the Quattro, a four-wheel drive (4WD) turbocharged car that went on to win rallies and races worldwide. It is considered one of the most significant rally cars of all time, because it was one of the first to take advantage of the then-recently changed rules which allowed the use of four-wheel drive in competition racing. Many critics doubted the viability of four-wheel drive racers, thinking them to be too heavy and complex, yet the Quattro was to become a successful car. It led its first rally before going off the road, however, the rally world had been served notice 4WD was the future. The Quattro went on to achieve much success in the World Rally Championship. It won the 1983 (Hannu Mikkola) and the 1984 (Stig Blomqvist) drivers' titles, and brought Audi the manufacturers' title in 1982 and 1984.
In 1984, Audi launched the short-wheelbase Sport Quattro which dominated rally races in Monte Carlo and Sweden, with Audi taking all podium places, but succumbed to problems further into WRC contention. In 1985, after another season mired in mediocre finishes, Walter Röhrl finished the season in his Sport Quattro S1, and helped place Audi second in the manufacturers' points. Audi also received rally honours in the Hong Kong to Beijing rally in that same year. Michèle Mouton, the only female driver to win a round of the World Rally Championship and a driver for Audi, took the Sport Quattro S1, now simply called the "S1", and raced in the Pikes Peak International Hill Climb. The 1,439-metre (4,721 ft) climb race pits a driver and car to drive to the summit of the 4,302-metre (14,114 ft) Pikes Peak mountain in Colorado, and in 1985, Michèle Mouton set a new record of 11:25.39, and being the first woman to set a Pikes Peak record. In 1986, Audi formally left international rallying following an accident in Portugal involving driver Joaquim Santos in his Ford RS200. Santos swerved to avoid hitting spectators in the road, and left the track into the crowd of spectators on the side, killing three and injuring 30. Bobby Unser used an Audi in that same year to claim a new record for the Pikes Peak Hill Climb at 11:09.22.
In 1987, Walter Röhrl claimed the title for Audi setting a new Pikes Peak International Hill Climb record of 10:47.85 in his Audi S1, which he had retired from the WRC two years earlier. The Audi S1 employed Audi's time-tested inline-five-cylinder turbocharged engine, with the final version generating 441 kW (600 PS; 591 bhp). The engine was mated to a six-speed gearbox and ran on Audi's famous four-wheel drive system. All of Audi's top drivers drove this car; Hannu Mikkola, Stig Blomqvist, Walter Röhrl and Michèle Mouton. This Audi S1 started the range of Audi 'S' cars, which now represents an increased level of sports-performance equipment within the mainstream Audi model range.
In the United States
As Audi moved away from rallying and into circuit racing, they chose to move first into America with the Trans-Am in 1988.
In 1989, Audi moved to International Motor Sports Association (IMSA) GTO with the Audi 90, however as they avoided the two major endurance events (Daytona and Sebring) despite winning on a regular basis, they would lose out on the title.
Touring cars
In 1990, having completed their objective to market cars in North America, Audi returned to Europe, turning first to the Deutsche Tourenwagen Meisterschaft (DTM) series with the Audi V8, and then in 1993, being unwilling to build cars for the new formula, they turned their attention to the fast-growing Super Touring series, which are a series of national championships. Audi first entered in the French Supertourisme and Italian Superturismo. In the following year, Audi would switch to the German Super Tourenwagen Cup (known as STW), and then to British Touring Car Championship (BTCC) the year after that.
The Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA), having difficulty regulating the quattro four-wheel drive system, and the impact it had on the competitors, would eventually ban all four-wheel drive cars from competing in the series in 1998, but by then, Audi switched all their works efforts to sports car racing.
By 2000, Audi would still compete in the US with their RS4 for the SCCA Speed World GT Challenge, through dealer/team Champion Racing competing against Corvettes, Vipers, and smaller BMWs (where it is one of the few series to permit 4WD cars). In 2003, Champion Racing entered an RS6. Once again, the quattro four-wheel drive was superior, and Champion Audi won the championship. They returned in 2004 to defend their title, but a newcomer, Cadillac with the new Omega Chassis CTS-V, gave them a run for their money. After four victories in a row, the Audis were sanctioned with several negative changes that deeply affected the car's performance. Namely, added ballast weights, and Champion Audi deciding to go with different tyres, and reducing the boost pressure of the turbocharger.
In 2004, after years of competing with the TT-R in the revitalised DTM series, with privateer team Abt Racing/Christian Abt taking the 2002 title with Laurent Aïello, Audi returned as a full factory effort to touring car racing by entering two factory-supported Joest Racing A4 DTM cars.
24 Hours of Le Mans
Audi began racing prototype sportscars in 1999, debuting at the Le Mans 24 hour. Two car concepts were developed and raced in their first season - the Audi R8R (open-cockpit 'roadster' prototype) and the Audi R8C (closed-cockpit 'coupé' GT-prototype). The R8R scored a credible podium on its racing debut at Le Mans and was the concept which Audi continued to develop into the 2000 season due to favourable rules for open-cockpit prototypes.
However, most of the competitors (such as BMW, Toyota, Mercedes and Nissan) retired at the end of 1999.
The factory-supported Joest Racing team won at Le Mans three times in a row with the Audi R8 (2000–2002), as well as winning every race in the American Le Mans Series in its first year. Audi also sold the car to customer teams such as Champion Racing.
In 2003, two Bentley Speed 8s, with engines designed by Audi, and driven by Joest drivers loaned to the fellow Volkswagen Group company, competed in the GTP class, and finished the race in the top two positions, while the Champion Racing R8 finished third overall, and first in the LMP900 class. Audi returned to the winner's podium at the 2004 race, with the top three finishers all driving R8s: Audi Sport Japan Team Goh finished first, Audi Sport UK Veloqx second, and Champion Racing third.
At the 2005 24 Hours of Le Mans, Champion Racing entered two R8s, along with an R8 from the Audi PlayStation Team Oreca. The R8s (which were built to old LMP900 regulations) received a narrower air inlet restrictor, reducing power, and an additional 50 kg (110 lb) of weight compared to the newer LMP1 chassis. On average, the R8s were about 2–3 seconds off pace compared to the Pescarolo–Judd. But with a team of excellent drivers and experience, both Champion R8s were able to take first and third, while the Oreca team took fourth. The Champion team was also the first American team to win Le Mans since the Gulf Ford GTs in 1967. This also ends the long era of the R8; however, its replacement for 2006, called the Audi R10 TDI, was unveiled on 13 December 2005.
The R10 TDI employed many new and innovative features, the most notable being the twin-turbocharged direct injection diesel engine. It was first raced in the 2006 12 Hours of Sebring as a race-test in preparation for the 2006 24 Hours of Le Mans, which it later went on to win. Audi had a win in the first diesel sports car at 12 Hours of Sebring (the car was developed with a Diesel engine due to ACO regulations that favor diesel engines). As well as winning the 24 Hours of Le Mans in 2006, the R10 TDI beat the Peugeot 908 HDi FAP in 2007, and in 2008, (however Peugeot won the 24h in 2009) with a podium clean-sweep (all four 908 entries retired) while breaking a distance record (set by the Porsche 917K of Martini Racing in 1971), in 2010 with the R15 TDI Plus.
Audi's sports car racing success would continue with the Audi R18's victory at the 2011 24 Hours of Le Mans. Audi Sport Team Joest's Benoît Tréluyer earned Audi their first pole position in five years while the team's sister car locked out the front row. Early accidents eliminated two of Audi's three entries, but the sole remaining Audi R18 TDI of Tréluyer, Marcel Fässler, and André Lotterer held off the trio of Peugeot 908s to claim victory by a margin of 13.8 seconds.
Results
American Le Mans Series
Audi entered a factory racing team run by Joest Racing into the American Le Mans Series under the Audi Sport North America name in 2000. This was a successful operation with the team winning on its debut in the series at the 2000 12 Hours of Sebring. Factory-backed Audi R8s were the dominant car in ALMS taking 25 victories between 2000 and the end of the 2002 season. In 2003, Audi sold customer cars to Champion Racing as well as continuing to race the factory Audi Sport North America team. Champion Racing won many races as a private team running Audi R8s and eventually replaced Team Joest as the Audi Sport North America between 2006 and 2008. Since 2009 Audi has not taken part in full American Le Mans Series Championships, but has competed in the series opening races at Sebring, using the 12-hour race as a test for Le Mans, and also as part of the 2012 FIA World Endurance Championship season calendar.
Results
European Le Mans Series
Audi participated in the 2003 1000km of Le Mans which was a one-off sports car race in preparation for the 2004 European Le Mans Series. The factory team Audi Sport UK won races and the championship in the 2004 season but Audi was unable to match their sweeping success of Audi Sport North America in the American Le Mans Series, partly due to the arrival of a factory competitor in LMP1, Peugeot. The French manufacturer's 908 HDi FAP became the car to beat in the series from 2008 onwards with 20 LMP wins. However, Audi were able to secure the championship in 2008 even though Peugeot scored more race victories in the season.
Results
World Endurance Championship
In 2012, the FIA sanctioned a World Endurance Championship which would be organised by the ACO as a continuation of the ILMC. Audi competed won the first WEC race at Sebring and followed this up with a further three successive wins, including the 2012 24 Hours of Le Mans. Audi scored a final 5th victory in the 2012 WEC in Bahrain and were able to win the inaugural WEC Manufacturers' Championship.
As defending champions, Audi once again entered the Audi R18 e-tron quattro chassis into the 2013 WEC and the team won the first five consecutive races, including the 2013 24 Hours of Le Mans. The victory at Round 5, Circuit of the Americas, was of particular significance as it marked the 100th win for Audi in Le Mans prototypes. Audi secured their second consecutive WEC Manufacturers' Championship at Round 6 after taking second place and half points in the red-flagged Fuji race.
For the 2014 season, Audi entered a redesigned and upgraded R18 e-tron quattro which featured a 2 MJ energy recovery system. As defending champions, Audi would once again face a challenge in LMP1 from Toyota, and additionally from Porsche who returned to endurance racing after a 16-year absence. The season-opening 6hrs of Silverstone was a disaster for Audi who saw both cars retire from the race, marking the first time that an Audi car has failed to score a podium in a World Endurance Championship race. The team won two races and finished second in the manufacturers' championship.
Audi won the first two races of the season, but thereafter failed to win again, finishing second in the manufacturers' championship.
For the third year in a row, Audi won two races and finished second in the manufacturers' championship. Audi had left WEC after the 2016 season.
Results
Formula E
Audi provided factory support to Abt Sportsline in the FIA Formula E Championship, The team competed under the title of Audi Sport Abt Formula E Team in the inaugural 2014-15 Formula E season. On 13 February 2014 the team announced its driver line up as Daniel Abt and World Endurance Championship driver Lucas di Grassi.
Audi had left Formula E after the 2020-21 Formula E season. Audi continued to provide their powertrain to Envision Racing for the 2021-22 Formula E season. Through the seven seasons in Formula E, Audi secured 14 victories, one Drivers' Champion with Lucas di Grassi and one Teams' Champion.
Formula One
Audi has been linked to Formula One in recent years but has always resisted due to the company's opinion that it is not relevant to road cars, but hybrid power unit technology has been adopted into the sport, swaying the company's view and encouraging research into the program by former Ferrari team principal Stefano Domenicali.
Audi announced in August 2022 that it would enter the Championship as an engine manufacturer in 2026. In October, Audi confirmed its partnership with Sauber Motorsport for the year 2026, acquiring a stake in the company for the German brand to enter the competition by renaming the team and supplying engines.
On 26 April 2024, Sauber announced they had signed Nico Hülkenberg for 2025 onwards on a multi-year contract, confirming him as their first driver in Formula One. Six months later, they confirmed that his teammate would be rookie Gabriel Bortoleto, the two replacing outgoing drivers Valtteri Bottas and Zhou Guanyu.
Current factory drivers
Racecars
Marketing
Branding
The Audi emblem is four overlapping rings that represent the four marques of Auto Union. The Audi emblem symbolises the amalgamation of Audi with DKW, Horch and Wanderer: the first ring from the left represents Audi, the second represents DKW, third is Horch, and the fourth and last ring Wanderer. The design is popularly believed to have been the idea of Klaus von Oertzen, the director of sales at Wanderer—when Berlin was chosen as the host city for the 1936 Summer Olympics and that a form of the Olympic logo symbolized the newly established Auto Union's desire to succeed. Somewhat ironically, the International Olympic Committee later sued Audi in the International Trademark Court in 1995, where they lost.
The original "Audi" script, with the distinctive slanted tails on the "A" and "d" was created for the historic Audi company in 1920 by the famous graphic designer Lucian Bernhard, and was resurrected when Volkswagen revived the brand in 1965. Following the demise of NSU in 1977, less prominence was given to the four rings, in preference to the "Audi" script encased within a black (later red) ellipse, and was commonly displayed next to the Volkswagen roundel when the two brands shared a dealer network under the V.A.G banner. The ellipse (known as the Audi Oval) was phased out after 1994, when Audi formed its own independent dealer network, and prominence was given back to the four rings—at the same time Audi Sans (a derivative of Univers) was adopted as the font for all marketing materials, corporate communications and was also used in the vehicles themselves.
As part of Audi's centennial celebration in 2009, the company updated the logo, changing the font to left-aligned Audi Type, and altering the shading for the overlapping rings. The revised logo was designed by Rayan Abdullah.
Audi developed a Corporate Sound concept, with Audi Sound Studio designed for producing the Corporate Sound. The Corporate Sound project began with sound agency Klangerfinder GmbH & Co KG and s12 GmbH. Audio samples were created in Klangerfinder's sound studio in Stuttgart, becoming part of Audi Sound Studio collection. Other Audi Sound Studio components include The Brand Music Pool, The Brand Voice. Audi also developed Sound Branding Toolkit including certain instruments, sound themes, rhythm and car sounds which all are supposed to reflect the AUDI sound character.
Audi started using a beating heart sound trademark beginning in 1996. An updated heartbeat sound logo, developed by agencies KLANGERFINDER GmbH & Co KG of Stuttgart and S12 GmbH of Munich, was first used in 2010 in an Audi A8 commercial with the slogan The Art of Progress.
Slogans
Audi's corporate tagline is Vorsprung durch Technik , meaning 'Progress through Technology'. The German-language tagline is used in many European countries, including the United Kingdom (but not in Italy, where All'avanguardia della tecnica is used), and in other markets, such as Latin America, Oceania, Africa and parts of Asia including Japan. Originally, the American tagline was Innovation through technology, but in Canada Vorsprung durch Technik was used. Since 2007, Audi has used the slogan Truth in Engineering in the U.S. However, since the Audi emissions testing scandal came to light in September 2015, this slogan was lambasted for being discordant with reality. In fact, just hours after disgraced Volkswagen CEO Martin Winterkorn admitted to cheating on emissions data, an advertisement during the 2015 Primetime Emmy Awards promoted Audi's latest advances in low emissions technology with Kermit the Frog stating, "It's not that easy being green."
Vorsprung durch Technik was first used in English-language advertising after Sir John Hegarty of the Bartle Bogle Hegarty advertising agency visited the Audi factory in 1982. In the original British television commercials, the phrase was voiced by Geoffrey Palmer. After its repeated use in advertising campaigns, the phrase found its way into popular culture, including the British comedy Only Fools and Horses, the U2 song "Zooropa" and the Blur song "Parklife". Similar-sounding phrases have also been used, including as the punchline for a joke in the movie Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels and in the British TV series Peep Show.
Typography
Audi Sans (based on Univers Extended) was originally created in 1997 by Ole Schäfer for MetaDesign. MetaDesign was later commissioned for a new corporate typeface called Audi Type, designed by Paul van der Laan and Pieter van Rosmalen of Bold Monday. The font began to appear in Audi's 2009 products and marketing materials.
Sponsorships
Audi is a strong partner of different kinds of sports. In football, long partnerships exist between Audi and domestic clubs including Bayern Munich, Hamburger SV, 1. FC Nürnberg, Hertha BSC, and Borussia Mönchengladbach and international clubs including Chelsea, Real Madrid, FC Barcelona, A.C. Milan, AFC Ajax and Perspolis. Audi also sponsors winter sports: The Audi FIS Alpine Ski World Cup is named after the company. Additionally, Audi supports the German Ski Association (DSV) as well as the alpine skiing national teams of Switzerland, Sweden, Finland, France, Liechtenstein, Italy, Austria and the U.S. For almost two decades, Audi fosters golf sport: for example with the Audi quattro Cup and the HypoVereinsbank Ladies German Open presented by Audi. In sailing, Audi is engaged in the Medcup regatta and supports the team Luna Rossa during the Louis Vuitton Pacific Series and also is the primary sponsor of the Melges 20 sailboat. Further, Audi sponsors the regional teams ERC Ingolstadt (hockey) and FC Ingolstadt 04 (soccer). In 2009, the year of Audi's 100th anniversary, the company organized the Audi Cup for the first time. Audi also sponsor the New York Yankees as well. In October 2010 they agreed to a three sponsorship year-deal with Everton. Audi also sponsors the England Polo Team and holds the Audi Polo Awards.
Marvel Cinematic Universe
Since the start of the Marvel Cinematic Universe, Audi signed a deal to sponsor, promote and provide vehicles for several films. So far these have been, Iron Man, Iron Man 2, Iron Man 3, Avengers: Age of Ultron, Captain America: Civil War, Spider-Man: Homecoming, Avengers: Endgame and Spider-Man: Far From Home. The R8 supercar became the personal vehicle for Tony Stark (played by Robert Downey Jr.) for six of these films. The e-tron vehicles were promoted in Endgame and Far From Home. Several commercials were co-produced by Marvel and Audi to promote several new concepts and some of the latest vehicles such as the A8, SQ7 and the e-Tron fleet.
Multitronic campaign
In 2001, Audi promoted the new multitronic continuously variable transmission with television commercials throughout Europe, featuring an impersonator of musician and actor Elvis Presley. A prototypical dashboard figure—later named "Wackel-Elvis" ("Wobble Elvis" or "Wobbly Elvis")—appeared in the commercials to demonstrate the smooth ride in an Audi equipped with the multitronic transmission. The dashboard figure was originally intended for use in the commercials only, but after they aired the demand for Wackel-Elvis fans grew among fans and the figure was mass-produced in China and marketed by Audi in their factory outlet store.
Audi TDI
As part of Audi's attempt to promote its Diesel technology in 2009, the company began Audi Mileage Marathon. The driving tour featured a fleet of 23 Audi TDI vehicles from 4 models (Audi Q7 3.0 TDI, Audi Q5 3.0 TDI, Audi A4 3.0 TDI, Audi A3 Sportback 2.0 TDI with S tronic transmission) travelling across the American continent from New York to Los Angeles, passing major cities like Chicago, Dallas and Las Vegas during the 13 daily stages, as well as natural wonders including the Rocky Mountains, Death Valley and the Grand Canyon.
Audi e-tron
The next phase of technology Audi is developing is the e-tron electric drive powertrain system. They have shown several concept cars as of March 2010, each with different levels of size and performance. The original e-tron concept shown at the 2009 Frankfurt motor show is based on the platform of the R8 and has been scheduled for limited production. Power is provided by electric motors at all four wheels. The second concept was shown at the 2010 Detroit Motor Show. Power is provided by two electric motors at the rear axle. This concept is also considered to be the direction for a future mid-engined gas-powered 2-seat performance coupe. The Audi A1 e-tron concept, based on the Audi A1 production model, is a hybrid vehicle with a range extending Wankel rotary engine to provide power after the initial charge of the battery is depleted. It is the only concept of the three to have range-extending capability. The car is powered through the front wheels, always using electric power.
It is all set to be displayed at the Auto Expo 2012 in New Delhi, India, from 5 January. It is powered by a 1.4 litre engine, and can cover a distance up to 54 km on a single charge. The e-tron was also shown in the 2013 blockbuster film Iron Man 3 and was driven by Tony Stark (Iron Man).
Lawsuit on the use of the letter Q
In early 2005, Nissan North America Inc. filed a lawsuit against Audi over the use of the letter "Q" as a model name.
Audi is using the "Q" for the designation of their quattro four-wheel drive system, used in production cars for over twenty-five years (Audi's Quattro trademark is actually an umbrella term for several types of four-wheel-drive systems developed by Torsen, Haldex Traction AB, and Borg-Warner, the latter being used in the Q7). Nissan's Infiniti marque first used Q for their 1989 Infiniti Q45 flagship, but later expanded to its entire lineup, with Q for passenger cars (the Q30, Q40, Q50, and Q60) and QX for SUVs (the QX30, QX50, QX60, and QX70).
A settlement between Audi AG and Nissan was reached in late 2006. The agreement stipulates that Audi will only use the Q-prefix for three models, the Q3, Q5 and the Q7. Audi has since released other Q series cars as well, such as the Q2, Q6, and Q8.
In video games
Audi has supported the European version of PlayStation Home, the PlayStation 3's online community-based service, by releasing a dedicated Home space. Audi is the first carmaker to develop such a space for Home. On 17 December 2009, Audi released two spaces; the Audi Home Terminal and the Audi Vertical Run. The Audi Home Terminal features an Audi TV channel delivering video content, an Internet Browser feature, and a view of a city. The Audi Vertical Run is where users can access the mini-game Vertical Run, a futuristic mini-game featuring Audi's e-tron concept. Players collect energy and race for the highest possible speeds and the fastest players earn a place in the Audi apartments located in a large tower in the centre of the Audi Space. In both the Home Terminal and Vertical Run spaces, there are teleports where users can teleport back and forth between the two spaces. Audi had stated that additional content would be added in 2010. On 31 March 2015 Sony shutdown the PlayStation Home service rendering all content for it inaccessible.
See also
DKW, Horch and Wanderer (company) – predecessors of Audi.
Volkswagen Group – parent company of current Audi.
References
External links
Official website


--- Audi A3 ---
The Audi A3 is a small family car (C-segment) manufactured and marketed by the German automaker Audi AG since September 1996.
The first two generations of the Audi A3 were based on the Volkswagen Group A platform, while the third and fourth generations use the Volkswagen Group MQB platform.
First generation (Typ 8L; 1996)
Audi announced the first generation A3 (Typ 8L) in June 1995. The model was launched for the European market in September 1996 and marked Audi's return to small cars after 19 years, following the demise of the Audi 50 in 1978.
The A3 was the first Volkswagen Group model to use the PQ34 (or "A4") platform, bearing close resemblance to the Volkswagen Golf Mk4, which arrived a year later. Within three years of the A3's launch, the PQ34 platform was utilised by seven different vehicles.
Initially, the A3 was only available as a three-door hatchback; this was done to give the model a sportier image and differentiate it from the Golf. Offered with transversely mounted inline four-cylinder engines in both front and quattro four-wheel drive, the A3 was Audi's eighth model to have five valves per cylinder. The dashboard was also used by the first generation SEAT León and second generation SEAT Toledo.
The United Kingdom received the Audi A3 in November 1996.
In 1999, Audi expanded the A3 range with the introduction of a five-door hatch and two new engine options; a 1.8 L turbocharged inline four-cylinder rated at 180 PS (132 kW; 178 hp), and a 1.9 L TDI diesel with unit injector "Pumpe Düse" (PD) technology and a variable geometry turbocharger. The four-wheel drive A3 1.8T Quattro used either the 150 PS (110 kW; 148 hp) or 180 PS (132 kW; 178 hp) engine, and the same Haldex Traction-based quattro system as the Audi S3 and Audi TT.
In late 2000, the A3 range was updated with new headlights and taillights, an improved interior, and other minor cosmetic changes alongside the introduction of a six-speed manual gearbox on the 180 PS (132 kW; 178 hp) 1.8T and new 130 PS (96 kW; 128 hp) 1.9 TDI.
With this update, Audi's electronic stability control, traction-control, and brake force distribution systems became standard in some countries.
Although the first generation Audi A3 was replaced in Europe in 2003, it continued to be sold in select markets; Brazilian production of Typ 8L A3 continued until 2006.
Safety
The first generation A3 received a Euro NCAP rating of 4 out of 5 stars. Their evaluation concluded "the column lock, adjuster lever and bracket presented hazards in the knee impact area for the driver. These could cause high loads on his upper legs and damage to his knees." The A3 also provided minimal protection for pedestrians, and received two stars out of a possible four.
S3 (1999–2003)
Audi released the A3-derived S3 in 1999. Only available as a three-door hatchback, the S3 was powered by a turbocharged 1.8 L 20v inline four-cylinder. Early models (1999–2001) produced 210 PS (154 kW; 207 hp), with later models (2001–2003) receiving variable valve timing which increased output to 225 PS (165 kW; 222 hp). The engine had a maximum torque output of 280 N⋅m (210 ft⋅lbf). The S3 was the first Audi S-series car to utilise a smaller four-cylinder engine.
The S3's quattro system utilises a Haldex Traction coupling to adjust the bias of torque distribution from the front to rear axle as grip requirements change. Due to this, the S3 typically operates in front-wheel-drive in most conditions.
The S3 was sold in Europe, Japan, Mexico, South Africa, Australia, and New Zealand.
In 2002, the S3 received a facelift, receiving revised front wings, rear lights clusters, single-piece headlight and indicator units, and minor interior trim updates.
Standard features include xenon HID headlamps with high pressure washers and auto levelers, front fog lamps, 17-inch "Avus" alloy wheels with 225/45R17 tyres, electrically adjustable Recaro leather seats, climate control, an alarm and electronic stability control with traction control.
Options include a Bose sound system, boot/trunk or in-dash mounted 6-disc CD changer, metallic paint, 18-inch 9-spoke RSTT wheels, glass sunroof, centre arm rest, privacy glass (B-pillar backwards), auto-dimming rear-view mirror, parking assist, luggage net, heated front seats, cruise control, aluminium door mirror casings and part leather/Alcantara (blue/silver/yellow) combination seat coverings. Some of these items are standard in certain export markets.
Engines
The engines used in the Typ 8L range are also used in a range of other Volkswagen Group vehicles.
Second generation (Typ 8P; 2003)
Initial release
At the 2003 Geneva Motor Show, Audi launched the second generation of the A3, the Typ 8P, designed by Gary Telaak during 2000 (however, the final design was frozen in 2001). Originally launched only as a three-door hatchback with four-cylinder engines, it featured a new automobile platform (the PQ35 platform), a redesigned and more spacious interior, new petrol engines with Fuel Stratified Injection (FSI), and standard six-speed manual gearboxes (except on the base 1.6 petrol and 1.9 diesel).
In mid-2003 the line was updated with two sports-oriented models, a 2.0 Turbo-FSI version rated 200 PS (147 kW; 197 hp), and a 3.2 L VR6 engine (for the first time) with 250 PS (184 kW; 247 hp). Haldex Traction-based quattro on-demand four-wheel drive, and the S-Tronic semi-auto gearbox were introduced as options (quattro is standard on the VR6) on models with engines over 140 PS (103 kW; 138 hp).
In 2005 the "S line" trim level, offering new decorative elements, became available and the three-door A3 received the same front-end styling features as the Sportback model. For the first time, the A3 became available in the North American market, exclusively with the Sportback body, with the base 2.0 inline-four FSI introduced in 2005 as a 2006 model, and the 3.2 VR6 Quattro following.
A3 Sportback (2004–2013)
The five-door "Sportback" model was introduced in June 2004. The A3 Sportback is 80 mm (3.1 in) longer than the base three-door body, and includes improved rear cabin space and a larger luggage compartment (370 litres). It also received the new "single frame" front grille originally introduced in the A8 W12, which was later adopted across the whole A3 range.
S3 (2006–2013)
In August 2006, Audi introduced the second generation S3. Offered in three- and five-door body styles, the second generation—Typ 8P—S3 is powered by a modified and uprated Volkswagen Group-sourced 2.0-litre turbocharged FSI petrol engine, with a maximum output of 195 kW (265 PS; 261 bhp). As with all Audi S models, the design was done in-house by quattro GmbH. The engine features uprated high-performance pistons, revised boost/fuel mapping, increased turbocharger size (KKK K04) and larger intercooler. The most powerful form of this engine, and quattro four-wheel drive, makes for a 0–100 km/h (0–62 mph) time of 5.7 seconds, and an electronically limited top speed of 250 km/h (155 mph). Audi offers both six-speed manual and six-speed S-Tronic automatic transmissions with the S3.
The spring ratings and dampers were revised, along with the body kit. Like its predecessor, although badged a "Quattro" model, the S3 does not employ a Torsen centre differential (as in other common Quattro models), but instead uses the Swedish Haldex Traction system in its on-demand four-wheel drive transmission, due to the transverse engine layout.
Safety
Euro NCAP tested a second-generation Audi A3 with front airbags, side airbags, seatbelt pretensioners, and load limiters as standard. Despite Audi increasing the protection inside the car for the driver and passengers, pedestrian safety actually decreased by a third compared to the first generation; Euro NCAP criticised the car for offering virtually no protection at all on the front end, giving it one star from a possible four. "A poor result for a new car" was the verdict given for pedestrian safety after the test.
2008 facelift
Audi introduced a number of changes to the A3 and S3 in 2008. These include revised nose and tail styling, with a modified grille and daytime running lights, common rail 2.0 TDI engines, seven-speed S tronic dual clutch transmission availability for the smaller non-U.S. engines, and optional "magnetic ride" adaptive shock absorbers. In addition, the range includes an S3 Sportback model.
Also, a cabriolet version was introduced. It was similar in dimensions to the 3-door version, with a two-box design.
Audi A3 TDI Clubsport quattro (2008)
Audi A3 TDI Clubsport quattro is a concept car unveiled in 2008. Based on the Audi A3 three-door, it is an approach by Audi to address both performance and the environment.
The engine in the concept car is a turbocharged 2.0-litre diesel producing 224 hp (167 kW) and 332 lb⋅ft (450 N⋅m) of torque. It produces 113.8 horsepower (84.9 kW) per litre while meeting Euro 5 Diesel emission standards. It uses the quattro drive system with a six-speed manual transmission.
The chassis has Audi's Magnetic Ride Suspension system, lowering the vehicle 1.4 inches (36 mm) from the base model. It also has ceramic front brakes, a four-link rear suspension and electro-mechanical servo assist for the rack and pinion steering.
Exterior modifications include the widening of the three-door's grill, modifying the odd, and enlarging air intakes. Bolt-on fender flares and a large rear spoiler have been added. The interior changes include sport seats and a flat-bottomed steering wheel.
Audi claims performance of 0 to 62 mph (0 to 100 km/h) in 6.6 seconds with a top speed of 240 km/h (149 mph). It is expected to get approximately 40 miles per US gallon (5.9 L/100 km; 48 mpg‑imp).
RS 3 Sportback (2011–2012)
The Audi RS 3 is derivative of the A3 Sportback with a 5-cylinder, 2,480 cc (151 cu in) turbocharged engine rated at 340 PS (250 kW; 335 hp) and 450 N⋅m (332 lb⋅ft), vermicular-graphite cast iron crankcase, seven-speed S tronic transmission with two automatic modes and one manual mode, Quattro on-demand four-wheel drive system, widened track to 1,564 mm (61.57 in), MacPherson strut in aluminium, lowered body by 25 mm (0.98 in), 19-inch cast aluminium wheels in machine-polished titanium styling (optional black with a red rim flange) with 235/35 front and 225/35 rear tires, 370 mm (14.57 in) front and 310 mm (12.20 in) ventilated brake discs, aluminium brake disk covers, four-piston fixed calipers in high-gloss black with RS logos, electronic stabilization program with Sport mode, flared front fenders made of carbon-fibre-reinforced plastic (CFRP), prominent sill panels and exterior-mirror casings in matte aluminium, roof spoiler, high-gloss black diffuser insert, two elliptical exhaust tailpipes on the left, black interior, sports seats upholstered in Nappa leather with silver contrasting stitching, inlays in Piano black finish or Aluminum Race colour, flat-bottomed leather multifunction sports steering wheel, choice of five body colours are available with an unlimited selection of custom paint finishes. Its acceleration is quoted as 0 to 100 km/h (0 to 62 mph) in 4.6 seconds, with an electronically limited top speed of 250 km/h (155 mph). Optional features included front bucket seats, roof rails in matte aluminium look, styling packages in black or matte aluminium. First deliveries started in early 2011.
A3 Cabriolet Sport and S line Final Edition (2013)
The A3 Cabriolet Sport Final Edition is a version of the A3 Cabriolet Sport model for the UK market, commemorating the end of the A3 Cabriolet's production run. It included Vienna leather upholstery, front seat heating, rear parking sensors, automatic headlight and wiper activation, cruise control, a Bluetooth mobile phone interface.
S line Final Edition is based on the A3 Cabriolet Sport Final Edition model, with 18-inch S line alloy wheel with a new five-segment spoke design, full Vienna leather upholstery, S line safety and entertainment features with xenon plus headlights with LED daytime running lamps, DVD-based satellite-navigation, Audi Music Interface iPod connection, a BOSE sound system.
Engines
In January 2007, the naturally-aspirated 2.0 FSI was replaced by a new turbocharged 1.8 TFSI engine rated 160 PS (118 kW; 158 hp). It is available in front-wheel drive only.
In late 2007, Audi introduced a new 125 PS (92 kW; 123 hp) 1.4 L TFSI engine for the A3, replacing the 1.6 L FSI engine, and a new diesel "e"-model. The "e"-model, Audi's equivalent of Volkswagen's BlueMotion, is available with the 1.9 L TDI engine, and offers a more ecological car, with a CO2 emission below 120 g/km.
Audi released two models of the A3 1.6 TDI for the European market. The first uses Audi's start/stop and energy recovery system, and produces 105 PS (77 kW; 104 hp). This engine achieves approximately 4.1 L/100 km (69 mpg‑imp; 57 mpg‑US). The second engine does not use the same efficiency systems and will produce 90 PS (66 kW; 89 hp) will get 4.5 L/100 km (63 mpg‑imp; 52 mpg‑US). They went on sale in June 2009.
In 2009, the 1.6 L eight-valve petrol engine was replaced by a turbocharged 1.2 TFSI engine already found in VW's Polo and Golf models. This engine is rated at 105 PS (77 kW; 104 hp) and 175 N⋅m (129 lb⋅ft), emitting 127 g/km of CO2.
The A3 2.0 TDI clean diesel is a version of Audi's A3 2.0 TDI for the North American market, making it the second Audi TDI vehicle sold in North America, following the Audi Q7 TDI in 2008. It is a FWD vehicle with S-Tronic transmission with Hill-hold assist, Sirius satellite radio, Leather seats and steering wheel, Auxiliary audio input, Dual-zone climate control, 17-inch (430 mm) alloy wheels. The vehicle was unveiled at the 2009 North American International Auto Show. This US model would begin sale in the first quarter of 2010 as a 2010 model year vehicle.
In March 2011, the line-up was expanded with the introduction of a more powerful 2.0 TDI with 170 PS (125 kW; 168 hp).
The 2.0 TDI engine was included in the engines found by the United States Environmental Protection Agency to use software intentionally designed to turn off emission control systems except when undergoing emission testing. Models made from 2009 to 2015 were affected.
Third generation (Typ 8V; 2012)
The vehicle was unveiled at the 2012 Geneva Motor Show and went on sale in Europe in September 2012.
First vehicle using the flexible modular Volkswagen Group MQB platform, the third generation is available as a three-door hatchback, a five-door "Sportback", a four-door saloon to directly rival the Mercedes-Benz CLA-Class, and a two-door Cabriolet.
The front suspension is a MacPherson strut set-up while the rear utilizes torsion bar suspension (models with less than 150 PS) or multi-link rear suspension (models with 150 PS or more).
The features include:
Multi-collision brake: Emergency braking function stops the car after the first impact, to prevent secondary collisions
Multi Media Interface MMI entertainment system (Tegra 3 processor) with handwriting recognition
4G broadband internet
Adaptive cruise control
Pre sense front/basic radar-guided collision avoidance system
Active lane assist
Side assist
Early German models include 1.4 TFSI (122 PS), 1.8 TFSI (180 PS), and 2.0 TDI (150 PS). 1.2 TFSI (105 PS), 1.4 TFSI (140 PS), 1.8 TFSI quattro (180 PS), 1.6 TDI (105 PS), and 2.0 TDI quattro (150 PS) were added in 2013.
A3 1.2 TFSI (105 PS) was added to the UK market in 2013, followed by A3 1.4 TFSI (140 PS) in 2013.
For the 2020 model year, the vehicle is exclusively built at the Ingolstadt plant, as opposed to previous model years where saloons and convertibles were built at the Győr plant.
A3 Saloon (2013–2020)
The A3 Saloon includes a body 11 mm (0.43 in) wider and 9 mm (0.35 in) lower than that of the A3 Sportback. Other features include 16- to 18-inch-wheels (optional 19-inch wheels via quattro GmbH) and electronic stabilization control with electronic differential lock.
The vehicle was unveiled at the 2013 New York Auto Show.
The German model went on sale in the third quarter of 2013. Early models include 1.4 TFSI (140 PS), 1.8 TFSI (180 PS), and 2.0 TDI (150 PS).
Delivery of the UK models began in late 2013. Early models include 1.4 TFSI (140 PS), 1.8 TFSI (180 PS), and 2.0 TDI (150 PS).
A3 Cabrio (2013–2020)
The A3 cabriolet model was offered starting in 2014. It has a three-box body style and a larger boot than the previous model (320 litres versus 260).
A3 Sportback (2013–2020)
The Audi A3 Sportback includes a wheelbase 58 mm (2.28 in) over previous model, 35 mm (1.38 in) longer than that of the A3 and a front axle shifted forward by 40 mm (1.57 in) over the previous model. Other features include a choice of 13 body colours (three solid finishes, eight metallic finishes, and two pearl-effect finishes), an optional high-gloss package adding accents around the windows (standard with the Ambiente trim line), six-speed manual transmission (optional S-Tronic) for all engine models, 16 or 17-inch wheels depending on trim line (optional 18-inch wheels), Audi drive select (standard with Ambition) with optional S-Tronic, and optional electromagnetic damper control system.
German models went on sale in February 2013. Early models include 1.4 TFSI (122 PS), 1.8 TFSI (180 PS), 1.8 TFSI quattro (180 PS), and 1.6 TDI. 1.2 TFSI (105 PS), 1.4 TFSI (140 PS), 2.0 TDI (150 PS), 2.0 TDI quattro (150 PS), and 2.0 TDI (184 PS) were available in later date.
A3 Sportback g-tron (2013–2020)
It is a version of the A3 Sportback with 1.4 TFSI (110 PS) engine powered by compressed natural gas or Audi e-gas synthetic methane; gas tank made of gas-impermeable polyamide polymer, carbon fibre reinforced polymer (CFRP), glass fibre reinforced polymer; and an electronic gas pressure regulator. The synthetic methane was produced by waste product from a nearby Werlte biogas plant operated by power utility EWE.
A3 Sportback e-tron (2014–2018, 2020)
The plug-in hybrid concept car was unveiled at the 2013 Geneva Motor Show. In May 2013 Audi confirmed its decision to produce a plug-in hybrid version of the A3, the Audi A3 Sportback e-tron, which was scheduled for retail sales in Europe by late 2013, and by mid 2014 in the U.S. and the UK. The A3 e-tron shares the same plug-in hybrid powertrain used in both the Volkswagen Golf GTE and Passat GTE. To charge the A3 e-tron, the Audi four rings logo is pulled along to reveal a charging socket.
The A3 Sportback e-tron is powered by a 1.4 L TFSI petrol engine that delivers 148 bhp (110 kW) and 184 lb⋅ft (249 N⋅m) of torque, coupled with a 101 bhp (75 kW) electric motor, which is integrated into the car's six-speed dual-clutch automatic transmission, for a total combined output of 201 bhp (150 kW) and 243 lb⋅ft (329 N⋅m). The plug-in hybrid has an 8.8 kWh battery pack that delivers an all-electric range of 50 km (31 mi) on the NEDC, and a total of 940 km (584 mi). The plug-in hybrid can reach a top speed of 220 km/h (137 mph) and can accelerate from 0-100 km/h (62 mph) in 7.6 seconds. According to Audi the car has an average fuel efficiency of 188 mpg equivalent and CO2 emissions of 35 g/km.
After some delays, the A3 Sportback e-Tron went on sale across Europe in August 2014. The first 227 units were registered in Germany in August 2014. As of December 2015, global sales totaled 12,994 units, of which, 12,945 units were registered in Europe, and 49 units in the United States, where deliveries began in December 2015.
Audi discontinued the A3 PHEV Sportback e-tron in Europe in November 2018. However, the model was briefly re-introduced at the end of 2019 for the 2020 model year, called A3 Sportback 40 e-tron under Audi's new naming scheme. The revised A3 e-tron in the UK featured a different level of specification, losing the previously standard LED headlights but gaining Audi's virtual cockpit as standard. The revised model featured the same battery and drivetrain as before, rated at 22 miles of electric range under the new WLTP test.
S3 (2013–2020)
The third generation Audi S3 is powered by a 2.0 L; 121.1 cu in (1,984 cc) TFSI (turbo petrol direct injection) inline-four engine, with an output of 221 kW (300 PS; 296 bhp) at 5,500 rpm and 380 N⋅m (280 lbf⋅ft) of torque at 1,800-5,500 rpm, with its redline at 6,800 rpm. It features new pistons with stronger bolts and new rings, as well as reinforced connecting rods with new mounts transferring the power to the crankshaft. The cylinder head is made of a new lightweight aluminium alloy designed with high strength and temperature resistance in mind. It has a combined fuel economy of 23 mpg‑US (10 L/100 km; 28 mpg‑imp) manual; and 24 mpg‑US (9.8 L/100 km; 29 mpg‑imp) with S tronic.
The engine weighs in at 148 kg (326 lb), 5 kg (11 lb) lighter than the previous generation. The S3 is capable of 0–100 km/h (62 mph) in 4.8-5.2 seconds and has an electronically limited top speed of 250 km/h (155 mph).
RS 3 (2015–2020)
Details for the RS 3 Sportback were revealed in December 2014. It went on sale in the first quarter of 2015 and featured a 2.5 litres (2,480 cc) straight-5 engine with 367 PS (270 kW; 362 hp) and 465 N⋅m (343 lbf⋅ft) of torque. The RS 3 Sportback is equipped with 7-speed dual clutch S tronic transmission and quattro all-wheel drive system. Scott Keogh of Audi of America said in April 2015 that he's "confident" we'll see the car come to the United States.
In 2017, the RS3 sedan or saloon was added to the line-up. In the same year, the RS3 was introduced to the North American market. The RS3 can be ordered with a fixed-suspension or an adjustable magnetic damper. Depending on the country, the RS3 can be purchased with different optional packages. For example, the Black Optic package includes high-gloss black 19-inch wheels, high-gloss black outside mirror covers, and a high-gloss black trunk lip spoiler, while the Dynamic package consists of titanium 19-inch wheels with summer performance tires, red brake calipers, and a sport exhaust system.
2016 facelift
After four years, the third-generation Audi A3 was given a facelift for the model year 2016, which also coincided with the 20th anniversary of the A3 name. The facelifted model was first unveiled through a set of official images in April 2016. The new A3 Saloon was given significant cosmetic updates, which were inline with the automaker's new design philosophy. As a result, the 2017 Audi A3 featured the Matrix LED headlamps that were earlier seen in the A8 flagship saloon and the R8 supercar. The rear taillights also received an optional sequentially animated turn-signal treatment. The front grille was also given a refreshed treatment that made the A3 look like the A4. Changes on the sides and rear were minimal, with only the taillights getting optional LEDs. There were multiple updates on the interior as well, with a fully digital 12.3-inch instrument cluster screen placed behind a revised steering wheel available as an optional upgrade. Optional features included Apple Carplay and Android Auto, and a suite of driver's assistance features. Sold in Europe and released in the United States for the 2016 model year.
Safety
Euro NCAP tested a third-generation Audi A3, 3-door hatchback with front airbags, side airbags, seatbelt pretensioners and load limiters as standard and scored it accordingly:
Engines
Fourth generation (Typ 8Y; 2020)
The fourth-generation A3 was unveiled on 3 March 2020 as the Sportback model, and the Saloon model was later unveiled on 21 April 2020.
The new exterior and interior styling is heavily inspired by Lamborghini, LED headlights and taillights, with the option of Matrix LED headlights. It shares the MQB evo platform with other Audi models, and with the Volkswagen Golf Mk8, SEAT Leon Mk4, and Škoda Octavia Mk4.
It is 3 centimetres longer and wider when compared to the outgoing model while keeping the wheelbase length the same, trunk cargo space is 380 litres with the seats up, and 1200 litres with the seats folded down. It has a drag coefficient of 0.28, and is powered by 1.0-litre 3-cylinder petrol turbocharged engine with 110 hp, 1.5-litre  with 150 hp, 2.0-litre TDI with 116 hp or 150 hp.
There is also a new 2.0-litre Quattro version in both petrol and diesel variants. It produces 190 hp (142 kW) and 320 N⋅m (236 lbf⋅ft) of torque (400 Nm for the diesel variant). It also has reduced cargo space (320 litres instead of the 380 litres in the other A3 variants) due to the Quattro four-wheel-drive system.
The S3 model has the same 2.0L petrol engine from the previous generation, producing 310 hp (231 kW) and 400 N⋅m (295 lbf⋅ft) of torque, but this time is only available with an automatic gearbox. Similarly it has reduced cargo space due to the Quattro four-wheel-drive system. In the United States, the S3 is equipped with the newer EA888.4 2.0L engine shared with the Mk8 Golf R, rated at 306 hp (228 kW) and 400 N⋅m (295 lbf⋅ft).
Like the previous generation, the new S3 also comes as a saloon/sedan.
This generation of the A3 Sedan is not expected to arrive in North America until late 2021, as a 2022 model. The A3 Sportback e-tron, or any other variant of the A3 Sportback, will not be sold anymore in North America. In countries where the PHEV variant of the A3 Sportback will be sold, it will no longer be called the e-tron because this name is reserved for electric Audi cars. Instead, it is called TFSIe. There are two versions, the "40 TFSIe" and the "45 TSFIe". The former has a 0–62 mph (0–100 km/h) time of 7.4 sec, while the latter is based on the Golf GTE and has a 0–62 mph (0–100 km/h) time of 6.3 s.
Audi RS 3
The highest specification RS 3 model is fitted with a 2.5-litre 5-cylinder producing 400 PS (294 kW; 395 hp) and 500 N⋅m (369 lb⋅ft), and has a 0-60 mph (97 km/h) acceleration time of 3.8 seconds. It gets a seven-speed dual-clutch automatic S-Tronic gearbox. It also gets the new MMI infotainment system, with a 10.25 or 12.3-inch digital instrument cluster, and a secondary screen of 10.1-inches. With the RS Dynamic package the speed limiter is removed, allowing the RS3 to reach a top speed of 290 km/h (180 mph). The US-market RS3 produces marginally more power than the European RS3, at a claimed 401 hp (299 kW; 407 PS). This is partially due to the lack of a petrol particulate filter for US model cars, as it is not required to meet emissions standards. The US-market RS3 instead receives a secondary catalytic converter.
In October 2022, the RS3 Performance Edition was introduced for European buyers. The boost was increased from 1.5 to 1.6 bar (21.8 to 23.2 psi), bringing power up to 407 PS (299 kW; 401 hp) and thus matching the peak power of the federalized version. Torque remained as before but across a slightly wider range. The (unlimited) top speed reaches 300 km/h (186 mph), a first for an A3 based model. Production is limited to 300 units.
2024 refresh
Audi presented a revised version of the A3 and S3 on 12 March 2024, announcing the RS3 after. The mid-cycle refresh saw the introduction of the allstreet variant, featuring a raised body and off-road trim.
It featured updated exterior styling elements including revised headlights, a redesigned front grille, modified bumpers, new wheel designs, and an updated rear diffuser. Interior updates include silver trim around the air vents, enhanced ambient lighting, and decorative fabric trim accents throughout the cabin. A significant mechanical change for 2025 is the standardization of Audi's quattro all-wheel drive system across all A3 variants in North America, eliminating the previously available front-wheel drive configuration.
The base model RS 3 maintains the same 2.5-liter turbocharged inline-five, with the North American sedan version updated to produce 401 hp compared to the previous 396 hp. It remains paired with an updated version of the Quattro S seven-speed dual-clutch automatic. The 0–60 mph time for the facelifted model improves from 3.8 to 3.6 seconds, with a factory-limited top speed of 155 mph. Fuel efficiency is slightly better, with the RS3 Sedan rated at 9.1 L/100 km 25.8 mpg US and 207 g/km of CO₂ emissions.
The European RS 3 Sportback shows slightly more fuel consumption and emissions compared to the sedan, with a rating of 9.3 L/100 km 25.3 mpg US and its CO₂ emissions of 217 g/km, retaining its G-class efficiency classification.
The updated RS3 benefits from a revised chassis aimed at improving handling with updates to the torque splitter, adaptive dampers, and wheel-selective torque control. This allows the car to turn more sharply and reduce understeer. These improvements contributed to the development driver, Frank Stippler, setting a 7:33.123 lap time on the Nürburgring track, beating the previous compact-class record by more than five seconds.
The A3 powertrain consists of a 2.0-liter turbocharged inline-four engine producing 201 horsepower, paired with a 48-volt mild hybrid system. For the 2025 model year, torque output increased to 236 lb-ft from the previous 221 lb-ft. Power is delivered through a seven-speed S tronic dual-clutch automatic transmission. The mild hybrid system enables improved fuel efficiency through extended stop-start functionality and regenerative capabilities.
The A3 features a 10.3-inch digital instrument cluster as standard, with an optional upgrade to a 12.3-inch display through the Technology package. A 10.1-inch touchscreen infotainment system comes standard with wireless Apple CarPlay and Android Auto integration. Two trim levels are offered in the United States: the Premium starting at $38,200 and the Premium Plus at $40,800. The A3 earned a spot on Car and Driver's Editors' Choice list for 2025.
Safety
Awards and accolades
(2014) World Car of the Year
(2013) What Car? Small Family Car of the Year
(2013) What Car? Car of the Year
(2006) South African Car of the Year
(2000) Brazilian Car of the Year
(1997, 1999, 2000) Auto motor und sport readers' poll Best Car award
(1997) Autozeitung "Auto Trophy" award
(1996) Bild am Sonntag "Golden Steering Wheel" award
Motorsport
S3 and RS 3 models have competed in various TCR Touring Car and rallycross series.
References
"A7, A5, and A3 Joins Even Numbers", an article in the "News" section on page thirty-eight of the June 2004 issue of Motor Trend
Audi A3 Owner's Manual (English/UK edition) (2000 Audi AG)
External links


--- Audi A4 ---
The Audi A4 is a line of luxury compact executive cars produced from 1994 to 2025 by the German car manufacturer Audi, a subsidiary of the Volkswagen Group. The A4 has been built in five generations and is based on the Volkswagen Group B platform. The first generation A4 succeeded the Audi 80. The automaker's internal numbering treats the A4 as a continuation of the Audi 80 lineage, with the initial A4 designated as the B5-series, followed by the B6, B7, B8, and the B9.
The B8 and B9 versions of the A4 are built on the Volkswagen Group MLB platform shared with several models and brands across the Volkswagen Group. The Audi A4 automobile layout consists of a front-engine design, with transaxle-type transmissions mounted at the rear of the engine. The cars are front-wheel drive, or on some models, "quattro" all-wheel drive. The A4 is available as a sedan and station wagon. Historically, the second (B6) and third generations (B7) of the A4 also included a convertible version. For the B8 and B9 versions, the convertible, along with a new coupé and 5-door liftback variant, was spun-off by Audi into a new nameplate called the Audi A5.
It has been manufactured in Ingolstadt since its beginning, in Changchun China by FAW-VW since 2003 and in Aurangabad India by Audi India since 2007.
The B9 generation A4 and A5 will be replaced by B10 version of A5, as part of Audi's new naming convention.
B5 (Typ 8D; 1994)
The first generation Audi A4 (known internally as the Typ 8D) debuted in October 1994, with production starting November 1994 and European sales commencing in January 1995 for the 1995 model year. North American sales later began in September 1995 for the 1996 model year. It was built on the Volkswagen Group B5 (PL45) platform, which it shared with the fourth generation Volkswagen Passat (B5, Typ 3B). It had a front-mounted longitudinal engine and front-wheel drive. Many variations of the A4 were also available with Audi's quattro four-wheel drive system. The A4 was initially introduced as a four-door saloon/sedan; the Avant (estate/wagon) was introduced in November 1995 and went on sale in February 1996.
Development began in 1988, with the first design sketches being created later that year. By 1991, an exterior design by Imre Hasanic was chosen and frozen for November 1994 production by 1992. The interior design was later finalized in 1992, with pilot production commencing in the first half of 1994. Development concluded in the third quarter of 1994, preceding November 1994 start of production.
A wide range of engines were available in European markets, between 1.6 and 2.8 litres for petrol engines; and a 1.9-litre diesel engine available with Volkswagen Group's VE technology, capable of achieving a 90 PS (66 kW; 89 bhp) or 110 PS (81 kW; 108 bhp). The 2.6 and 2.8-litre V6 engines which had been carried over from the old 80/90 proved popular, although in North America, the 2.8-litre engine was the only V6 that was available there until 1997. A 2.4-liter version was developed especially for the Thai market, where import duty jumped from 60 to 100 percent on cars of over 2,400 cc displacement.
The Audi A4 was the first model in the Volkswagen Group to feature the new 1.8-litre 20v engine with five valves per cylinder, based on the unit Audi Sport had developed. A turbocharged 1.8T version produced 150 PS (110 kW; 148 bhp) and 210 N⋅m (155 lb⋅ft) torque. Moreover, a quattro GmbH special edition of the B5 1.8T was later available in Germany and Europe, for which the engine's power output was raised to 180 PS (132 kW; 178 bhp) and 235 N⋅m (173 lb⋅ft). Five-valve technology was also added to a reengineered V6 family of engines in 1997, starting with the 2.8-litre V6 30v, which now produced 193 PS (142 kW; 190 bhp), followed by a 2.4-litre V6 which was a downsize from the previous 2.6 litre, 150 hp (112 kW) engine, but with a power increase to 165 PS (121 kW; 163 bhp).
Audi also debuted their new tiptronic automatic transmission on the B5 platform, based on the unit Porsche developed for their 964-generation 911. The transmission is a conventional automatic gearbox with a torque converter offering the driver a fully-automatic operation or manual selection of the gear ratios.
The B5 marked Audi's continued move into the midsize luxury car segment, having started this trajectory notably with later model years of the preceding Audi 80/90 B4. Despite initial mechanical problems, overall build and assembly quality were lauded both by the automotive press and within Audi and Volkswagen, and at the time, parent company Volkswagen declared the B5 the company-wide build quality benchmark for all its other models.
Facelift (1999–2001)
The Audi A4 B5 saw nearly constant minor changes and alterations throughout its seven-year run. Moreover, a significant facelift was introduced for the 1998 B5 model year at the 1997 Frankfurt Motor Show, with sales beginning in Europe in early 1998. The 2.8-litre 30-valve V6 engine replaced the 2.8-litre 12-valve. A 2.5-litre V6 Turbocharged Direct Injection diesel engine with 150 PS (110 kW; 148 bhp) was standard on the Quattro. A six-speed manual gearbox was available, as well as the new high-performance Audi S4, now part of the A4 lineup (the previous S4 had been an Audi 100). Cosmetic updates included new rear lights, headlights, door handles, and another minor exterior/interior changes.
In mid-1998, the 1.8 20vT engine available outside Europe had its power output raised to 170 PS (125 kW; 168 bhp). The previous KKK K03 turbocharger, although fundamentally unchanged, received revisions on the turbine side to prevent cracking due to heat. The 12-valve V6 was replaced by the 30-valve unit which had been available in Europe for two years.
A further facelift took place across the A4 and S4 platform in February 1999 as a 1999.5 model; changes were largely cosmetic but affected many components, such as both front and rear bumpers, the front and rear lights, the center console, and door handles. While outer body shell changes from the pre-facelift model were superficially subtle, it meant that no two body panels were directly interchangeable between each other. This facelift was known at Audi as a Grosse Produktaufwertung (Major Product Upgrade), as was also signified by facelift cars now carrying the denomination "8D2".
In 1999 Audi also debuted an even higher performance RennSport model (rennsport translates as racing sport), the RS4 Avant, like its predecessor RS2, available only in the Avant bodystyle.
Engines
The following engines were available:
Safety
In the Euro NCAP safety and crash tests, the Audi B5 A4 received 3 stars for front- and side-impact protection, but the last star is flagged to indicate that the driver may be subjected to a high risk of chest injury in the side impact.
Adult occupant =
Pedestrian =  (pre 2002 rating)
Derived hybrid version
In 1997, Audi was the first European car manufacturer to put a hybrid vehicle into mass production, the third generation Audi duo, then based on the A4 Avant.
B6 (Typ 8E/8H; 2000)
The next A4, internally designated Typ 8E, debuted on 10 October 2000, now riding on the Volkswagen Group B6 (PL46) platform. The car's new styling was developed under Peter Schreyer between 1996 and 1998, inspired by the Bauhaus design language of the C5 (second-generation) Audi A6 introduced in 1997. The 1.6-litre base model powerplant remained unchanged, but most other petrol/gasoline engines received either displacement increases, or power upgrades. The 1.8-litre 20-valve Turbo was now available in two additional versions, with 150 PS (110 kW; 148 bhp) or 180 PS (132 kW; 178 bhp), this one with a standard six-speed manual gearbox, while the naturally aspirated 1.6-litre straight-four engine and 2.8-litre V6 were replaced by 2.0-litre, and all-aluminium alloy 3.0-litre units, still with five valves per cylinder, the most powerful of which was capable of 220 PS (162 kW; 217 bhp) and 300 N⋅m (221 lb⋅ft) of torque. The 1.9 Turbocharged Direct Injection (TDI) engine was upgraded to 130 PS (96 kW; 128 bhp), with Pumpe Düse (Unit Injector) (PD) technology, and was now available with quattro permanent four-wheel drive, while the 2.5 V6 TDI high-end model was introduced with 180 PS (132 kW; 178 bhp) and standard quattro. This generation of quattro consisted of default of 50:50 front to rear dynamic torque distribution. A Bosch ESP 5.7 Electronic Stability Programme (ESP) system, with anti-lock braking system (ABS), brake assist, and electronic brakeforce distribution (EBD) were standard across the range.
The Avant was introduced in October 1992
For 2002, Audi increased power in the 1.8 Turbo engines to 183 PS (135 kW; 180 bhp) and 190 PS (140 kW; 187 bhp) – the 190 PS variant designated by a red 'T' on the boot lid. Available with four wheel drive and in the 2.5 TDI intermediate version to 163 PS (120 kW; 161 bhp). A 2.0 engine with Fuel Stratified Injection (FSI) was also available. A year later, Audi reintroduced the S4, now powered by a 344 PS (253 kW; 339 bhp) 4.2 L V8 engine, as well as an A4 Cabriolet convertible variant (Typ 8H), finally replacing the 80-based Audi Cabriolet which had been discontinued in 2000. It included an electro-hydraulic operated roof, which lowered in under 30 seconds and incorporated some styling changes, such as body-coloured lower bumper and sill panels, which later found their way to the saloon version. The Audi A4 Cabriolet version was co-developed and manufactured by Karmann.
Audi introduced a continuously variable transmission developed by LuK, named multitronic, which replaced the dated conventional automatic transmission on front-wheel drive models. There have been widespread complaints from consumers around the world that the transmission box is prone to electronic glitches as well as mechanical problems.
Borrowing from the Audi A6, the boot was redesigned to remove the extension of the top edge with a smoother fold line. The rear light assemblies now formed part of the top line, these styling cues were eventually borrowed by other European as well as Asian manufacturers.
A sport package named 'Ultra Sport' was introduced in the North American market shortly before the B6 was replaced by the B7. It included aluminium interior trim and door sills, "S line" steering wheel, front and rear spoilers, side skirts, and quattro GmbH designed 18-inch RS4 alloy wheels.
Engines
The following engines were available:
Safety
The Audi A4 (B6 & B7) passed the Euro NCAP safety and crash tests, and was awarded the following car safety ratings:
Adult occupant =
Pedestrian =  (pre 2002 rating)
The Insurance Institute for Highway Safety (IIHS) awarded both the B6 & B7 a "Good" rating in the frontal crash test; the B7 was not retested since the front portion is structurally the same.
B7 (Typ 8E/8H; 2004)
Audi introduced a heavily facelifted A4 in late 2004, with the internal designation of B7. Although given a new platform designation, the B7 was essentially a heavily facelifted and revised version of the B6, with revised steering settings, suspension geometry, new internal combustion engine ranges, navigation systems and chassis electronics (including a new advanced Bosch ESP 8.0 Electronic Stability Programme (ESP) system). The front grille assembly changed to a tall trapezoidal shape in the same manner as the C6 (third-generation) Audi A6; however, the dashboard and interior were virtually unchanged from the B6 aside from minor detailing.
Audi's internal platform nomenclature uses PL46 (passenger car longitudinal platform, size 4, generation 6) for both B6 and B7 chassis. The Typ 8E and Typ 8H internal designations are also carried over from the B6 A4 range, but now have an additional identifying suffix – 8EC for the saloon, 8ED for the Avant, and 8HE for the Cabriolet.
The engine lineup received many additions. The 2005 introduction of Fuel Stratified Injection (FSI) on the 2.0 TFSI and 3.2 V6 FSI petrol/gasoline engines, as well as other refinements, increased power output to 200 PS (147 kW; 197 bhp) and 255 PS (188 kW; 252 bhp), respectively. These engines both use a four-valve per cylinder configuration. The prior 5-valve design was incompatible with the FSI direct injection system (due to the siting of the fuel injector, now discharging directly into the combustion chamber). The 2.0 Turbocharged Direct Injection (TDI) diesel engine now combined Pumpe Düse (Unit Injector) (PD) technology with 16 valves, while the larger 2.5 TDI V6 diesel was superseded by a 3.0 V6 TDI, offering a 204 PS (150 kW; 201 bhp) model during the year 2005 which was upgraded to a 233 PS (171 kW; 230 bhp) model in 2006. A 2.7 V6 TDI was added later.
Torsen T-2 based quattro permanent four-wheel drive remained as an option on most A4 models. Audi retained the 5 speed manual transmission with the 1.9 TDI and 2.0 non turbo petrol engines while introducing the 6 speed manual for all higher output variants. As before, multitronic continuously variable transmission (CVT), now with selectable 'seven-speeds', was an option on front-wheel drive models, whilst a conventional ZF 6HP 6-speed tiptronic automatic transmission was an option on the quattro four-wheel drive models.
In addition to the Audi S4, which carried over the powertrain from the B6 S4 – Audi reintroduced the quattro GmbH developed Audi RS4 (RS for RennSport) to the lineup, for the first time on the saloon/sedan and Cabriolet body, and with a naturally aspirated, but high-revving 4.2-litre V8 FSI engine. Another inclusion on the RS4 was the latest generation Torsen T-3 Quattro 4WD system, which uses a 'default' asymmetric 40:60 front-rear dynamic torque distribution bias. This new asymmetric center differential was initially only available on the RS4 but was added a year later on the S4. The remainder of the B7 A4 range still used the T-2 50:50 default dynamic split center diff.
A variant, developed by quattro GmbH, was first introduced in May 2005, named "Audi A4 DTM Edition". It was inspired by Audi's race cars of the 2004 Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters and was reintroduced in 2006 as a regular option. The 2.0T FSI engine received revised software mapping to the ECU, which increased the output to 220 PS (162 kW; 217 bhp) and 300 N⋅m (221 lb⋅ft) of torque. It was available with front-wheel drive, or Quattro four-wheel drive.
The B7 Cabriolet model arrived later than the other two body variants, being first shown in late 2005 and with sales beginning in February 2006. New on the Cabriolet was an entry-level 2.0 TDI version, which was not offered with the Multitronic CVT gearbox. The Cabriolet version was produced by Karmann until February 2009.
In 2007 Audi introduced a version of the B7 named the 'Special Edition', which built on the S-Line specification and also included the black optics pack, the RS4 style 8J X 18 '7-arm double-spoke' design alloy wheels, Two-tone Graphite/Black Volterra leather, 3-spoke sports leather/Alcantara multi-function steering wheel with gear knob and hand brake handle in Alcantara with silver stitching, ventilated cross-drilled front disc-brakes, black tailpipes and black roof rails (Avant model only). It also had a power increase of 20 PS, giving an output of 220 PS on the 2.0T model.
According to 2007 Swedish vehicle inspection data, the Audi A4 Avant with diesel engine is the most reliable vehicle available on the market, with vehicle inspection rejection rate of 0.0% in three-year-old category.
SEAT Exeo
When the successor B8 A4 range was introduced, the B7 series A4 was restyled and rebadged as the SEAT Exeo in 2008 with changes to the front and rear plus interior trim from the A4 Cabriolet. The entire Audi B7 A4 production line from Audi's Ingolstadt plant was dismantled and sent to Volkswagen Group's SEAT factory in Martorell, Spain.
Engines
The following engines were available:
Safety
The Audi A4 offered several standard safety features, including Bosch ESP 8.0 Electronic Stability Programme (ESP) with anti-lock braking system (ABS), side airbags in the seats, 'sideguard' curtain airbags, and its optional quattro four-wheel drive system. It also received the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety (IIHS) "Top Safety Pick For 2007". EuroNCAP crash test results from the B6 apply to the B7 model.
B8 (Typ 8K; 2007)
Audi released the first official pictures of the B8 series A4 in August 2007 and unveiled the car to the public at the September 2007 Frankfurt Motor Show. Saloon/sedan and Avant (estate/wagon) models are offered. The Avant was unveiled to the public at the March 2008 Geneva Motor Show. For North America's destined models, the B8 continued in production for the 2016 model year, while Europe began deliveries on the 2016 B9 model.
The B8 A4 is built on a variant of the Audi Modular Longitudinal Platform, a platform that is also used in the Audi A5 coupé. While prior A4 chassis were limited in wheelbase due to the relationship between the engine, transmission and front axle, the MLP allows for a reduced front overhang, resulting in a greater wheelbase length without the same increase in overall length. This effectively redistributes the centre of gravity slightly rearwards, improving handling by better balancing vehicle mass between the front and rear axles. The estimated static front:rear weight ratio of the B8 A4 is approximately 55:45, depending on body style and engine. The relocation of the steering rack in front of the axle also improves handling over previous A4 platforms. Key to the implementation of MLP is the novel mounting of the differential in front of the clutch. This is achieved by driving the flywheel/clutch remotely by means of a 'top hat' shaped drive plate, between which the differential lay shaft passes, whilst power transmission to the final drive is via an inclined transfer shaft which runs the length of the transmission unit. Whilst the platform retains Audi's "overhung" engine mounting position, the front axle is now 152mm further forward than the previous B6/B7 generation platform. The transfer shaft, however, has the effect of creating a large "bulge" on one side of the transmission tunnel, which on right-hand drive versions forces the pedals to be badly offset, which has attracted criticism from the British motoring press in particular.
The B8 A4 has increased in wheelbase by 160 millimetres (6.3 in) and in length by 117 millimetres (4.6 in) over the prior B7, which has allowed for increased rear seating legroom. Although the overall dimensions have increased, the curb weight has dropped some 10%. The boot (trunk) has also increased to 480 litres (17.0 cu ft) for the saloon (sedan) version. The A4 Avant will have a maximum capacity of 1,430 L (50.5 cu ft) with the rear seats folded down.
Reception has been mixed, with praise for the Audi A4's increased size, giving it best-in-class rear legroom and trunk space in the compact executive car segment. Its inline-4 2.0 TFSI engine, while efficient providing plenty of torque, was considered lacking and less refined compared to 6-cylinder engines of lighter rivals who posted faster acceleration times. However, the Audi S4 sports sedan has been well-received for its V6 3.0 TFSI engine's power and efficiency.
The B8 A4 was facelifted in early 2012. During a model, cycle changes are made to integrate new technologies and to keep the model competitive. These changes are referenced based on the model year (MY) of the car. In Australia, the B8 has undergone 2 revisions leading to three variants, the B8, B8 MY10 and B8 MY11.
Body types
Saloon / Sedan
Audi released the first official pictures of the B8 series A4 in August 2007 and unveiled the car to the public at the September 2007 Frankfurt Motor Show. Saloon/sedan and Avant (estate/wagon) models are offered.
The Avant station wagon/estate was presented at the March 2008 Geneva Motor Show.
A4 allroad quattro
The A4 Allroad Quattro is based upon the Avant but features a wider track, increased ground clearance, Quattro permanent four-wheel drive, a distinctive radiator grille, stainless steel underbody guards and roof rails.
The A4 allroad quattro was made available in early summer 2009. The car was unveiled in 2009 Geneva Motor Show.
The A4L is a long-wheelbase version of the sedan/saloon for the Chinese market, with a 60 mm (2.4 in) longer wheelbase and length. The vehicle was presented at the 2008 Guangzhou Motor Show. The production version then went on sale in January 2009. Launch models included a 2.0 TFSI with 132 kW (177 hp) and the 3.2 FSI with 195 kW (261 hp).
Specifications
Body styles
The A4-based convertible models were replaced by the A5/S5 Cabriolet.
Engines
The B8 powertrain options are the following: engines, transmissions and drivelines: (All United Kingdom specification unless stated otherwise). (for South Africa specification). (for Australia specification). (for New Zealand specification).
The quattro permanent four-wheel drive system uses the latest Torsen T-3 centre differential, with a default 40:60 front to rear asymmetric torque distribution ratio (used first on the B7 RS4) as standard. (Previous A4 Quattro models split torque with a default front:rear 50:50). The additional torque bias applied to the rear wheels helps mimic the driving dynamics of rear-wheel drive cars.
Audi was reported to stop offering 3.2L V6 models in 2010 model year, but still offers them as of August 2011 (Germany).
All petrol engines use Fuel Stratified Injection (FSI), and all diesel engines use the common rail fuel delivery (with a pressure of 1,600 bars (23,000 psi)), with piezo injectors of their Turbocharged Direct Injection engines.
With the 2012 facelift (the B8.5) came additional 163ps TDIe and TDI Ultra engines, the latter requiring the addition of adblue allowing for cleaner running, both of which fell into the lower emissions tax bracket for the UK, yet presenting a significant performance improvement over the base 136ps and mid-range 143ps models.
Transmissions
In 2009, Audi announced the seven-speed S-Tronic dual-clutch automatic transmission as an option for A4 in the UK and European markets.
All A4L models include Speed 8 multitronic continuously variable/manual transmission, except for A4L 3.2 FSI quattro, which includes Tiptronic automatic transmission.
Volkswagen settled a class-action lawsuit in 2013 involving the failures of the CVT transmission in its Audi A4 and A6 automobiles for model years 2002–2006.
Performance
Equipment
Standard equipment on the B8 A4 includes:
LED daytime running lights (on some models);
MMI system (Multi Media Interface) (multi-mode interface of driver information and entertainment systems); (3rd generation MMI expected in vehicles produced from week 22 of 2009). Standard system (Audi Concert/Symphony models) does not include navigation or Bluetooth connectivity (or Bluetooth audio streaming - applicable to 2012 facelift onwards, B8.5 models)
Electronic hand brake
Speed sensitive power steering ('servotronic' – on some models)
Options:
Audi Lane Assist (lane departure warning system);
Audi Side Assist (blind spot monitor);
Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC);
Advanced Key (keyless entry and start);
Bang & Olufsen 14 speaker sound system (505W);
Advanced parking system front and rear with reversing camera;
Navigation system with full MMI with 7-inch (180 mm) screen;
Adaptive headlights (with cornering technology);
Audi Drive Select;
Safety
Euro NCAP
The Audi A4 (B8) Euro NCAP crash tests ratings (pre-2009 testing):
Adult occupant =
Child occupant =
Pedestrian =
Euro NCAP (2009 testing):
Overall =
Adult occupant = 93%
Child occupant = 84%
Pedestrian = 39%
Insurance Institute for Highway Safety (IIHS)
Head and seat restraints
A4 TDI concept e (2008)
It includes a common rail 1,968 cc (120 cu in) TDI diesel engine rated at 120 PS (88 kW; 118 hp) and 290 N⋅m (214 lb⋅ft), a stop-start system and regenerative braking. It can achieve a fuel consumption of 3.99L/100 km (58.95 mpg) and CO2 output of 105 g/km. It can accelerate from 0-100 km/h (62 mph) in 10.7 seconds, with a top speed of 206 km/h (128 mph).
Other features include electric motor-based power steering, revised aerodynamics, low-rolling-resistance 225/45R17 tires, and electric actuation of the rear brakes.
The car was unveiled in Paris Motor Show.
Facelift (2012–2015)
The facelift model of the Audi A4 was released in 2012 for the 2013 model year. It features redesigned LED headlamps and taillights, front air dam with fog lamps, and closely set twin exhausts. Interior changes include Bluetooth connectivity for audio streaming (nav equipped models only) and a redesigned ignition key. Controls for air-conditioning, infotainment, and power windows gain chrome clasps. Other detail interior changes include larger steering column stalk switches first seen in the D4-series Audi A8 and a simplified layout for the HVAC control panel – for example the temperature setting for the heated seats is now directly set by a single button and is no longer controlled using the MMI dial. The A4 includes a radio with eight speakers as standard, while the MMI navigation system with voice dialogue is optional. A new "Drive Select System" allows drivers to choose comfort, dynamic, individual, or efficiency modes for fuel-efficiency. The power output of the 1.8 TFSI engine is 170 bhp and 320 Nm of torque – up 10 bhp and 70 Nm from the previous versions. Electromechanical power steering is standard.
In Europe, the wide range of Audi A4 saloon and Avant estate are available with the 1.8 TFSI, 2.0 TFSI, and 3.0 TFSI gasoline engines (same 7-speed S tronic and 3.0 TFSI supercharged V6 as the Audi S4 but detuned to 272 bhp and 292 lb ft of torque in the A4 3.0 TFSI) Twin Test: BMW 335i Vs Audi A4 3.0 TFSI…, as well as 2.0 TDI, 2.0 TDIe, and 3.0 TDI diesel motors. Trim levels are Attraction, Ambition, and Ambiente. In the UK, the A4 range is offered in SE, SE Technik, Technik, S line, and Black Edition model grades. All-wheel-drive Quattro is offered in most engine and grade combinations.
For North America, the facelift model Audi A4 sedan is only offered with a 2.0 TFSI turbocharged inline-4 gasoline engine, while the performance upgrade remains the Audi S4 with a 3.0 TFSI supercharged V6 gasoline engine, and no diesel engines were offered. Model grades are Premium, Premium Plus, and Prestige. The Avant was discontinued, leaving the Allroad Quattro as the only station wagon body style. For the 2016 model year, the A4 and S4 continued in B8 production. The B9 A4 would not reach the North American market until the 2017 model year, while the S4 variant would not be available until the 2018 model year.
B9 (Typ 8W; 2015)
The fifth-generation of the A4 was revealed in June 2015 when pre-production versions were released to the motoring press, with the official launch occurring at the Frankfurt Motor Show in September 2015. It is commonly referred to as the B9, representing the ninth generation of the Audi 80/A4 series, which were originally (but no longer) based on the B platform. The B9 is slightly larger than the outgoing B8, but Audi claims the new A4 is around 120 kg (265 lb) lighter than its predecessor due to the use of its new lightweight aluminum-hybrid construction. The B9 also comes with several A4 firsts such as virtual cockpit, Apple CarPlay and Android Auto, full-color head-up display, and Audi pre-sense.
A common misconception is that the B9 (or 8W) generation started in model year 2017, as that is when the US market got it – however, it was available in European markets beginning in 2015.
The Audi A4 launched with three petrol and four diesel engines. US models received only the gasoline versions which consisted of the base 2.0L turbo found in the ultra model, the standard 2.0L turbo in the standard grades, and the V6 engines offered in the S4 and RS4 (3.0L and 2.9L respectively). The Ultra introduced Audi's new high efficiency variant of the EA888 that achieves best in class fuel economy through the use of an increased compression ratio engine (9.6:1 to 11.7:1) with shorter compression and longer-expansion phases. It sends this power through a 7-Speed dual-clutch powering the front wheels only. This allows the A4 to achieve an EPA rating of 27 city/37 highway/31 combined. This variant was only offered until 2020 at which point it was rebranded to the 40 TFSI. Performance figures are shown under the engine variants below.
Available model grades are Premium, Premium Plus, Ultra Premium, Ultra Premium Plus and Prestige. Ultra models featured improved fuel efficiency and reduced emissions, and were only available in the FWD configuration. Every other model was available in either FWD or Quattro. The S Line and Black Optic packages were also made available. The S Line package uses skirts, bumpers, seats and wheels from the Audi S4, and adds an aluminum inlay to the interior consoles. The Black Optic package, or Black Edition, also uses the S4's body kit, but replaces the exterior's chrome trim with black counterparts.
A slight facelift was introduced in 2019, featuring new front and rear bumpers inspired by the Audi RS 4. Additionally, the Titanium model grade was introduced to replace the Ultra Premium and Ultra Premium Plus models.
US Launch Editions and Prices
Facelift (2020–2025)
The facelift model, also known as the B9.5, was made available in 2020. It brought the A4's aesthetic in line with the S4, A6, A7 and A8. In addition to redesigned headlights and taillights, almost every body panel on the A4 was altered, with only the hood, trunk and roof remaining untouched. Notably, the character line that ran the length of the A4 was removed, with creases added to the front and rear fenders in its place. While the interior was largely untouched, the mechanical controls for the infotainment center were replaced with a touchscreen and larger display. Following the facelift, the A4 and S4 now share their body panels, with their grilles and badges being the only external distinctions between the models.
Post-facelift, the Titanium model was removed from production, leaving only the Premium, Premium Plus and Prestige model grades. Additionally, US delivered Post-facelift A4's are only available in the Quattro configuration. Whereas front wheel drive continued to be available for the rest of the world. Noting that the B9.5 introduced Quattro-Ultra technology, a system which can disconnect the all wheel drive to save fuel during specific driving conditions, thus negating the disadvantage of Quattro's additional fuel consumption. The Black Optic and S Line packages also return for select models. The Black Optic package can be equipped on any Premium Plus or Prestige Model, while the S Line model can be applied to any Premium Plus or Prestige Model with a 45 TFSI engine. The S Line package makes no changes to the exterior beyond its badging, as the A4 and S4 now share their body kits. It instead provides an aluminum inlay for the interior, improved seats, and stainless steel pedals.
In addition to the above packages, Audi also manufactures aftermarket accessories for the A4, including decals, spoilers, mirror caps and tail pipes.
Audi A4 2025 (Final Year)
The 2025 model year marks the final production year for the Audi A4 nameplate after nearly three decades in the market, with the model being discontinued and replaced by the redesigned Audi A5 as part of the company's restructured naming convention. Under Audi's new nomenclature system, odd-numbered models designate internal combustion engine vehicles while even-numbered models are reserved for electric vehicles. For 2025, Audi streamlined the A4 lineup by eliminating the 40 TFSI trim level, leaving only the 45 TFSI variant with a 261-horsepower turbocharged 2.0-liter four-cylinder engine paired with a 12-volt mild hybrid system.
Updates for the final model year include remote engine start via the myAudi app as standard equipment across all trims, and HomeLink smart home control buttons relocated to the rearview mirror. The Premium Plus trim received Audi's Navigation Plus package as standard equipment, while the Convenience package for the Premium trim added rear USB charge ports. A new S Line Plus package became available for Premium Plus and Prestige trims, featuring black exterior trim, dark exhaust tips, 19-inch wheels, red brake calipers, leather-and-faux-suede seats, carbon fiber interior trim, and stainless-steel pedal caps.
All 2025 A4 models come standard with Audi's quattro all-wheel drive system and a seven-speed dual-clutch automatic transmission. The infotainment system features a 10.1-inch touchscreen, with the Premium Plus trim offering an upgraded Bang & Olufsen audio system with 19 speakers and Audi's Virtual Cockpit digital gauge display. Three trim levels are offered: Premium S line starting at $44,100, Premium Plus S line at $48,600, and Prestige S line at $51,300. The A4 allroad wagon variant continues for 2025 with a 2.0-liter turbocharged four-cylinder engine producing 261-horsepower and 273 lb-ft of torque, featuring standard adaptive damping suspension and Audi drive select system.
Engines
Seven engines are available from launch, three petrol, and four diesel. All are available in both the A4 Saloon and A4 Avant. The figures below are for the saloon only.
Safety
The 2017 Audi A4 earned Good ratings across the board for Crashworthiness and Seat belts & child restraints. For Crash avoidance & mitigation it earned a Marginal to Acceptable for headlights depending on trim as well as Goods across the board for Front crash prevention vehicle-to-vehicle. These ratings apply to the full B9 A4 line and the mechanically similar A5 Sportback.
EURO NCAP
The Audi A4 released to Europe in 2015 for the 2016 model year. It earned a 5-Star Rating for all A4s, A5 Coupes, and A5 Sportbacks. These ratings were valid through January 2022 at which point they expire.
Awards
Cars.com 2018 Luxury Car of the Year
2016 Best Premium Car - Fleet News
Japan Car of the Year Award (Import Category - 2016)
Kelly Blue Book Best Buy Award 2017
Motor Trend Car of the Year finalist 2017
What Car? Car of the Year 2016
Production
Motorsport
A4 DTM
Audi Sport re-entered the Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters (DTM) series in 2004 (after having privateer teams run the Abt Sportsline Audi TT-R) with a V8 engined silhouette racing car resembling the A4 saloon, known as the Audi A4 DTM. A4 DTM cars are identified by Audi Sport "R"-prefix designations.
Australian Super Touring Championship
Brad Jones won the Australian Super Touring Championship in both 1996 and 1998 driving an A4.
The A4 was used in the 1996–1998 and 2011–2015 British Touring Car Championship seasons.
The A4 was used in the 2000–2001 European Super Touring Championship season.
Italian touring cars
A4 drivers won the Italian Superturismo Championship in 1995 and 1996.
Drivers in an A4 won 2001, 2002, 2003, and the 2006 Swedish Touring Car Championship season.
The A4 was entered into the 1995 Super Tourenwagen Cup season.
The car was used in the 2006 Russian Circuit Racing Series.
The A4 was used in the SCCA World Challenge for several years.
Renaming
In March 2023, Audi CEO Markus Duesmann did confirm that the A4 would be renamed the A5, while the A6 would become the A7, with the future A4 and A6 to be sold as electric vehicles only.
See also
Volkswagen Group China
References
Bibliography
External links
Official website


--- Audi A6 ---
The Audi A6 is an executive car manufactured by the German company Audi since 1994. Now in its sixth generation, the successor to the Audi 100 is manufactured in Neckarsulm, Germany, and is available in saloon and estate configurations, the latter marketed by Audi as the Avant. Audi's internal numbering treats the A6 as a continuation of the Audi 100 lineage, with the initial A6 designated as a member of the C4-series, followed by the C5, C6, C7, C8 and the C9. The related Audi A7 is essentially a Sportback (liftback) version of the C7-series and C8-series A6 but is marketed under its own separate identity and model designation.
All generations of the A6 have offered either front-wheel-drive or Torsen-based four-wheel-drive, marketed by Audi as their quattro system. The A6 has also been used as the basis for the company's Allroad models since 1999.
C4 (Typ 4A, 1994)
Audi's executive car was previously named the Audi 100 (or Audi 5000 in the United States), and was released in three successive generations (Audi C1, Audi C2 and Audi C3). In 1994, the latest generation (C4) of the Audi 100 received a facelift and was renamed as the Audi A6, to fit in with Audi's new alphanumeric nomenclature (as the full-size A8 had just been introduced). The exterior was changed only slightly from the "C4" Audi 100 – new front and rear lights, new radiator grille, similarly with chassis and engine and transmission choices. The United Kingdom was the first market to receive the A6, as stock of RHD Audi 100s had run out before expected, and before the rest of mainland Europe.
The new engines for the A6 were 1.8-litre 20v inline four-cylinder, 2.0-litre 8v inline-four, 2.6-litre 12V V6 and 2.8-litre 30v V6 petrol engines, with the 2.3-litre inline-five engine being dropped on most markets. For the diesel engines, an inline-four 1.9 Turbocharged Direct Injection (TDI), and the inline-five (R5) 2.5 TDI with 103 kW (140 PS; 138 bhp) were available.
Most of the engine options were also available with Audi's Torsen-based quattro permanent four-wheel-drive system. Amongst enthusiasts, the torsen-based Quattro system was the superior choice, offering better handling and consistent full-time all wheel drive.  The A6 was available with saloon and Avant bodies.
C4 engines
The C4 design was available with the following engines:
Upon introducing the C4 series A6 which is very rare car with 5 cylinder 2.5 TDI engine being the legendary turbodiesel that never dies. This car price would be "Good condition 30,000$" "Very bad condition 4,000$". The 1995 year versions are the most rare. Audi made small revisions to what was previously known as the Audi S4, renaming it the Audi S6; the S4 name would eventually be re-used for a completely different model derived from Audi's smaller Volkswagen Group B platform-based Audi A4. As this was the first S6 model from Audi, it is commonly referred to as the Ur-S6, derived from the German augmentative, "Ursprünglich" (meaning: original). It was available as both a saloon/sedan (type 4A5), and an "Avant" (type 4A9) (estate/wagon) to European and United States customers, but only as a saloon in Canada, Asia and Australia.
From its launch in late 1994, the Audi S6 was powered by a 2,226 cubic centimetres (135.8 cu in) turbocharged inline five-cylinder petrol engine (parts code prefix: 034, identification code: AAN) with a Bosch Motronic electronic engine control unit (ECU), producing a motive power output of 169 kW (230 PS; 227 bhp) at 5,900 rpm and 350 N⋅m (258 lb⋅ft) at around 1,950 rpm, on high octane "Super Plus" 98RON unleaded petrol. This engine gave the S6 a top speed of 241 km/h (149.8 mph), and allowed it to accelerate from 0 to 100 km/h (62.1 mph) in 6.7 seconds; with 160 km/h (99.4 mph) being reached in 17.5 seconds. The vehicle was available with a standard six-speed manual transmission (five-speed only in North America), and Audi's dynamic Torsen T-1 Quattro permanent four-wheel-drive system.
Audi made a 4.2-litre V8 engine (parts code prefix: 077, identification code: AEC) with a Bosch KE-Motronic ECU available as an option in the original European S4s, and made the decision to continue to do so with the S6, making a 213 kW (290 PS; 286 bhp) version of the 4.2 available as an optional upgrade over the 2.2-litre inline five-cylinder turbo. Unlike the five-cylinder turbocharged version, the V8-powered S6 was supplied with a four-speed automatic transmission as standard but kept the Quattro four-wheel-drive. A six-speed manual gearbox was also available as an option.
Audi S6 PLUS
As a swan song to the C4 platform, an even more powerful, and very limited-production Audi S6 Plus was briefly available to European customers. The S6 Plus, developed by Audi's wholly owned high-performance subsidiary, quattro GmbH, was available for sale during the 1997 model year only (production from June 1996 to October 1997). A total of 952 cars were produced; 855 Avants and 97 saloons.
It was powered by another version of the 32-valve (four valves per cylinder) 4.2-litre V8 engine (parts code prefix: 077, identification code: AHK, later to be seen in the Audi S8 as AKH). Audi's performance division reworked key parts of the engine, increasing the maximum power to 240 kW (326 PS; 322 bhp). It was only available with a revised six-speed manual transmission (parts code prefix: 01E, identification code: DGU) (gear ratios – 1st: 3.500, 2nd: 1.889, 3rd: 1.320, 4th: 1.034, 5th: 0.857, 6th: 0.730), with a final drive ratio of 4.111.
Further revisions were made to the suspension, brakes, and wheels. The front brake discs were enlarged to 323 mm (12.7 in) in diameter by 30 mm (1.18 in) thick. Standard wheels were 8Jx17 "Avus" cast aluminium alloy wheels, with an optional 7Jx16 alloy wheel for use with winter tyres was also available.
The S6 Plus saloon could reach 100 km/h (62.1 mph) from a standstill in 5.6 seconds, with the Avant a tenth of a second slower at 5.7 seconds.
C5 (Typ 4B, 1997)
In February 1997, the introduction of a new A6 (Typ 4B), based on a new design automobile platform – the Volkswagen Group C5 platform, with a new range of engines was announced and appeared in March at the 1997 Geneva Motor Show. This A6 was marketed in the same categories as the BMW 5 Series and the Mercedes-Benz E-Class. The redesigned body had a coefficient of drag of 0.28.
In 2000 and 2001, the "C5" A6 was on Car and Driver magazine's Ten Best list. This A6 was available with 30-valve 2.4- and 2.8-litre V6 engines, with numerous other engine configurations available globally. As an alternative to the manual transmission, a five-speed tiptronic automatic transmission was also available.
The C5 saloon variant arrived in mid-1997 in Europe, late 1997 in North America and Australia, and the Avant in 1998. In Canada, there was no Avant (Audi's name for an estate/wagon) available at all in 1998 – Audi dropped the C4 Avant at the end of the 1997 model year, and jumped straight to the C5 Avant in 1998 in conjunction with its release in the US. In compliance with federal standards, North American models were equipped with front and rear bumpers that protruded several inches further than their European counterparts, with modified brackets and bumper suspension assemblies as result, and child-seat tethers for occupant safety. In compliance with Canadian law, Canadian models received daytime running lights as standard equipment. North American C5 A6 models received the 2.8-litre, 30-valve V6 engine, the 2.7-litre "Biturbo" V6 also found in the B5 platform S4, developing 250 PS (184 kW; 247 hp), and the 4.2-litre 40-valve V8 petrol engine with 221 kW (300 PS; 296 hp); the two more powerful engines were only offered with quattro permanent four-wheel drive. The V8 models arrived with significantly altered exterior body panels, with slightly more flared wheel arches (fenders), revised headlamps and grille design (before being introduced in 2002 to all other A6 models), larger wheels (8Jx17-inch), larger brakes, and Torsen-based Quattro permanent four-wheel-drive as standard.
In 2002, the A6 received a facelift, with revised headlight and grille design, exposed exhaust tips, and slight changes to accessory body moldings, and tail light colour from red to amber in North American models. A new host of engines were also introduced. The 1.8-litre engine was deleted and replaced by a 2.0-litre powerplant with 96 kW (130 PS; 128 hp). The 1.9-litre Turbocharged Direct Injection (TDI) was tweaked to produce a maximum power output of 96 kW (130 PS; 128 hp), and 310 N⋅m (229 lb⋅ft) of torque, and was mated to a six-speed manual gearbox. The 2.4-litre V6 was named the BDV 30 valves and  gained an extra 5 hp and better balancing, and the 2.8-litre V6 engine was replaced by a 3.0-litre engine with 162 kW (220 PS; 217 bhp). The turbocharged 2.7-litre was revised, resulting in 184 kW (250 PS; 247 bhp) and 330 N⋅m (243 lb⋅ft), controlled by standard quattro system. The V6 diesel was also slightly modified resulting in 120 kW (163 PS; 161 bhp) (after the second modification) and 350 N⋅m (258 lb⋅ft). A new more powerful V6 diesel was also introduced with 132 kW (180 PS; 178 hp) and 370 N⋅m (273 lb⋅ft). The 4.2-litre V8 engine which arrived in 2001 remained unchanged.
Also new was the multitronic continuously variable transmission, available in most front-wheel drive models. All models, except the 2.0-litre petrol and 1.9-litre TDI, were available with Audi's trademark four-wheel-drive system, Quattro. A four-wheel-drive version of the Avant, with raised ground clearance and slightly altered styling, was sold as the Audi allroad quattro.
The second-generation A6 was on Car and Driver magazine's Ten Best list for 2000 and 2001. The updated 2005 A6 won the World Car of the Year award for 2005. In addition, the facelifted third-generation A6 3.0T won two Car and Driver "comparos" that pitted it against other sedans like the BMW 5 Series, Mercedes-Benz E-Class, Jaguar XF, and Infiniti M.
A long wheelbase version of the A6 C5 was available in China for the first time, making this model the first stretched German sedan developed especially for that country.
S6 and RS 6
The Audi S6 is a high-powered variant of the A6, featuring a modified version of the 4.2-litre V8 engine producing 250 kW (340 PS; 335 bhp) and 420 N⋅m (310 lb⋅ft). It was available as a saloon and Avant although the Avant version was the only one sold in North America.
In the late years of the A6 C5 design, a higher-performance limited-run Audi RS 6 model was presented. Weighing in excess of 1,840 kg (4,057 lb) and producing 331 kW (450 PS; 444 bhp) and 560 N⋅m (413 lbf⋅ft), the RS 6 was capable of 0-100 km/h (62.1 mph) in 4.5 seconds, and on to 200 km/h (124.3 mph) in under 17 seconds. Initially available as only an Avant, a saloon variant was later added; the saloon version being the only version available to the North American market. The RS 6 saloon finished first in a May 2003 Car and Driver comparison test against the BMW M5 (E39), Mercedes-Benz E 55 AMG (W211), and Jaguar S-Type R.
allroad quattro (1999–2005)
Audi's C5 series A6 Avant formed the basis for a semi-offroad model in 1999, labeled "Audi allroad quattro". Compared to the regular A6, the allroad featured an advanced air suspension system, allowing for increased ground clearance; larger  diameter all-terrain tyres, and flared fenders and bumpers with matte finish, giving it a distinct appearance and more overall flexibility over varying terrain. The allroad's ride height was also increased with 25 mm subframe spacers; and overall frame stiffness increased with reinforced welds on the subframe mounts and A, B, and C pillars, the floor pan being produced with 20% thicker steel. As the name "allroad Quattro" suggests, Audi's Torsen-based quattro permanent four-wheel-drive system was standard equipment for all versions.
The standard adjustable air suspension system can lift the car high enough to provide 208 mm (8.2 in) of ground clearance; a low-range mode (an option with manual transmission), absent from other Quattro-equipped vehicles, can be selected with the touch of a button. When used together, the two systems made it possible for the allroad to complete an official Land Rover test-course, thus far it is the only car-based SUV that has been proven capable of doing so in testing. Conversely, the air suspension can lower the vehicle down to only 142 mm (5.6 in) above road level, and simultaneously stiffen the spring and damper rates to provide a sporty driving experience, much like that of the conventional A6 with the sports suspension.
Audi's 2.7-litre, biturbo V6 petrol engine with 250 PS (184 kW; 247 hp) and 350 N⋅m (258 lb⋅ft) of peak torque was available initially, alongside the 2.5-litre TDI diesel unit with 180 PS (132 kW; 178 hp) and 370 N⋅m (273 lb⋅ft) of torque. A variant of the corporate 4.2-litre V8 petrol engine was made available in 2003, and a less powerful TDI (163 bhp) followed in 2004.
Audi stopped production of the allroad in July 2005. Although the model continued to be available for sale throughout 2006 in Europe, there was no 2006 model year for North America.
With the return of the "allroad" nameplate to North America, in the form of the 2013 A4 allroad Quattro, the C5-Platform allroad Quattro has begun to take the name "Ur-allroad." The 'Ur-' is used in the German language, as a prefix to signify 'ancient' or 'early ancestor' (e.g., great-grandmother is Urgroßmutter), and is used informally by car enthusiasts worldwide to refer to the original Audi Quattro that was produced from 1980 to 1991 (the "Ur-Quattro"). The use of the term was then extended to the original S4 and S6 models to differentiate them from later models with the same name, and more recently to the C5 allroad models ("Ur-allroad").
C5 engines
The C5 design was available with the following engines:
C6 (Typ 4F, 2004)
Initial release
The Typ 4F A6 was released in 2004. Designed by Satoshi Wada in 2001, this model is visually an evolution of the C5, but was lengthened to 4,927 mm (194.0 in), and has the new Audi "single-frame grille". Like other contemporary Audis, the A6 has a "tornado line" that runs from the front lights to the rear lights just below the body shoulders.
The C6 iteration of the A6 features more sophisticated technology. Most notable is the Multi Media Interface (MMI), which is a system controlling in-car entertainment, satellite navigation, climate control, car settings such as suspension configuration and optional electronic accessories through a central screen interface. This has the advantage of minimising the number of buttons normally found on a dashboard by replacing them with controls that operate multiple devices using the integrated display.
On the engines, the new Fuel Stratified Injection (FSI) direct injection technology was introduced. Although the line of engines represents the same progression as the former model, all engines were new. The multitronic continuously variable transmission continues as an alternative for front-wheel-drive models, alongside a new six-speed tiptronic automatic transmission model 09E available in the four-wheel-drive models. Audi's "trademark" Torsen-based Quattro permanent four-wheel-drive is available in most of the lineup, and standard in the most powerful models. Quattro is not available on the Multitronic variants of the A6, but is available on the manual and Tiptronic gear systems. Conversely, the Tiptronic system is not available on the front-wheel-drive variants of the car. The six-speed manual gearbox is available with the 3.2-litre V6 engine, but not for the North American market.
The Avant was previewed by the Audi Avantissimo concept in 2001 and arrived during the course of 2005. The A6 All-road Quattro made its debut in 2006, and as before, is an off-road-ready version of the Avant, available with either a 2.7-litre V6 or 3.0-litre V6 Turbocharged Direct Injection diesel engines, or a 3.2-litre V6 or 4.2-litre V8 petrol engine.
A6L (2005–2009)
The A6L is a long wheelbase version of the A6 sedan for the Chinese market. The vehicle was unveiled in 2005 at the Shanghai Motor Show.
The vehicles went on sale in the middle of 2005. Early models include A6L 2.4, with A6L 2.0 TFSI (170 PS) followed shortly after. A6L 3.0 Quattro (218 PS) and A6L 4.2 Quattro (335 PS) were introduced in 2005. Other models include A6 3.0.
The Audi S6 performance variant was introduced in the Frankfurt Motor Show, and produced from early 2006 until 2011. It is powered by a 5.2-litre Fuel Stratified Injection (FSI) V10 engine producing 320 kW (435 PS; 429 bhp) and 540 N⋅m (398 lbf⋅ft) of torque, a de-tuned engine taken from the Lamborghini Gallardo. The S6 reaches 100 km/h (62.1 mph) from a standstill in 5.2 seconds and a quarter mile in 13.5 seconds.
A6 allroad quattro (2006–2011)
Audi announced the C6 series allroad in 2005 and released it the following year. This model was called the Audi A6 allroad quattro (unlike the previous version, the Audi allroad quattro, with no reference to the A6 nomenclature).
The Audi A6 allroad quattro again featured adaptive air suspension and quattro permanent four-wheel drive system. The A6 allroad was powered by a choice of two Fuel Stratified Injection (FSI) petrol engines, a 3.2-litre V6 and a 4.2-litre V8, and two TDI diesel engines, a 180 PS (132 kW) 2.7 L and a 225 PS (165 kW) (233 only in the US) 3.0 L. The tiptronic gearbox is standard on the 4.2 V8 and the 2.7 TDI, but optional on the 3.2 FSI and 3.0 TDI.
The five-mode air suspension can be raised by up to 60 mm (2.36 in) to provide ground clearance of 185 mm (7.28 in) which is better than the older four-mode.
The car featured a number of off-road styling cues including larger bumpers and sills.
In some European markets, this A6 allroad quattro was more expensive than the larger Audi Q7, but an air suspension is an expensive option in the Q7. In its native country, Germany, it cost a few hundred Euros less than the Q7.
Engines
Awards
In 2005, the A6 won the World Car of the Year award, and has also won the Practical Caravan "Towcar of the Year" awards, due to its array of towing features such as adjustable suspension height and damping, and the presence of a 123 Trailer Stability Programme.
C6 facelift
Audi unveiled a facelifted "C6" Audi A6 on 12 August 2008, at the Moscow International Motor Show. The refresh incorporates some modern Audi design cues to keep the A6 current with the rest of the Audi lineup.
There are minor cosmetic changes to the front and rear lights which now have daytime running LEDs, the taillights extend towards the centre of the trunk lid and pinch off at the license plate mount, however, their shape remains rectangular compared to the more sculpted light clusters found in the 2008 Audi A5, 2008 Audi A4, and 2009 Audi Q5 (the latter three being all-new generations).
The intakes below the headlamps are inspired by the Audi RS5. The A6's six (per side) front light-emitting diode (LED) daytime running lights (DRLs) are located within the main headlamp housing, similar to RS6's placement of the LEDs (ten per side), whereas on the S6 these front LEDs (five per side) are found adjacent to the fog lamps in the lower front bumper.
The new front and rear fascias from RS6 would be used on the facelifted A6 and S6 lineup.
There are now six petrol and four diesel engines available for the upgraded A6. All petrol engines now feature cylinder-direct Fuel Stratified Injection (FSI) technology, and all diesel engines now feature common rail (CR) and Turbocharged Direct Injection (TDI) technologies. There is a new petrol engine, a 300 PS (221 kW; 296 bhp), 3.0-litre supercharged V6 - badged either 3.0 TFSI or 3.0T. This new engine is shared with the B8-generation Audi S4 and S5, although slightly detuned vs. the S-cars, and makes the A6 3.0T only 0.1 seconds slower 0–60 mph (97 km/h) than the more powerful but heavier 4.2 V8 variant and 5.2 V10-bearing S6.
Also updated for 2009 is the Quattro all-wheel-drive setup, which is already found on the 2008 Audi A5 and 2008 Audi A4. This new system features a 40/60 front-to-rear torque split and offers a more balanced feel, reducing the understeer that comes from 50/50 AWD platforms.
US models went on sale as 2009 model year vehicles, and arrived in dealerships by the beginning of January. Early models include A6 3.2 FSI (sedan), A6 3.0 TFSI quattro (sedan/Avant), A6 4.2 FSI quattro (sedan), S6 5.2 FSI (sedan).
RS6 (2008–2010)
The latest version of ultra-high-performance Audi RS6 was launched in September 2008 and produced until the third quarter of 2010. Based upon the V10 engine powering the S6, the RS6 features an all-aluminium alloy 4,991 cc (304.6 cu in) V10 twin-turbocharged, Fuel Stratified Injection engine with a dry sump lubrication system. It produces a power output of 426 kW (579 PS; 571 bhp), and 650 N⋅m (479 lbf⋅ft) of torque, making it the most powerful vehicle ever produced by Audi at the time. This has now been surpassed by the Audi R8.
Initially available only as an Avant, the saloon version went on sale in mid-October 2008.
A6L (2009–2012)
The A6L is a longer wheelbase version of the A6 sedan for the Chinese market. The vehicle was unveiled at Auto Shanghai 2009. Early models included the 2.7 TDI powerplant (189 PS).
The Audi A6L was also converted into the form of a pickup truck although only two examples are known to exist on the roads.
C6 facelift engines
Safety
C7 (Typ 4G, 2011)
Initial release
The fourth generation C7 series Audi A6 (internally designated Typ 4G) was leaked online in December 2010 and launched in early 2011 for the European market and in other markets soon after. It is heavily influenced by the Audi A8 (D4), pulling elements from its exterior details. The A6 shares its interior, platform, and powertrain (Modular Longitudinal Platform) with the Audi A7 four door sedan, which had been released shortly before also in 2011. Design work began in 2006, with Jurgen Loffler's exterior design being chosen in 2008.
The new A6 increased its wheelbase by nearly 3 in (76 mm) and its width by 2.7 in (69 mm). The redesign also decreased the car's drag coefficient to 0.25.
European engine choices for the C7 include two petrol engines – a 2.8-litre FSI V6 with 204 hp (152 kW) and a 300 hp (224 kW), 3.0-litre supercharged FSI engine – and two diesel engines – a 2.0-litre inline four-cylinder and a 3.0-litre turbocharged diesel engine in three states of tune. The European A6 3.0 TFSI will have an optional seven-speed dual-clutch transmission and an air suspension option, two features that will not be available on the United States model.
For North America, the Audi A6 3.0 TFSI quattro came with a 3.0-litre supercharged V6 putting out 310 PS (228 kW; 306 hp) and 325 lb⋅ft (441 N⋅m), the same engine carried over from the previous-generation A6 3.0 TFSI, but in a higher state of tune and mated to an eight-speed automatic transmission. There is also an Audi A6 2.0 TFSI quattro powered by a 2.0-litre turbocharged inline-four, the same engine in the Audi A4 and Q5, mated to an eight-speed automatic transmission. For the United States but not the Canadian market, there will be an entry-level Audi A6 2.0 TFSI FrontTrak (front-wheel drive) with a 2.0-litre turbocharged inline-four, the same engine in the Audi A4 and Q5, but mated to the Multitronic CVT (continuous variable transmission).
The 2012 model year A6 features all the driver assistance systems from the A8, plus it adds automotive head-up display, active lane assist. Full LED headlamps with Automatic high beam switching or Audi adaptive light (Xenon) with variable headlight range control.
C7 facelift (2015–2018)
Audi unveiled the 2015 C7 mid-life facelift at the 2014 Paris Motor Show. The refresh includes styling tweaks to the car's exterior, engine line-up, transmission and MMI infotainment system with faster Tegra 3 processor, Handwriting recognition, Audi connect Telematics with 4G mobile internet (and online updates for the navigation map), and advanced Matrix LED headlights.
All three TFSI 1.8tfsi and five TDI engines now meet the Euro 6 emission standard. The new TDI Ultra model now comes with glass fibre-reinforced polymer (GFRP) springs and both ultra models now come with S-Tronic (dual-clutch) transmission. The entry-level Audi A6 2.0 TFSI FrontTrak (front-wheel drive) with a 2.0-litre turbocharged inline-four, received a seven-speed dual-clutch automatic that replaced the previous Multitronic CVT (continuously variable transmission).
A6 hybrid (2012–2014)
A hybrid electric variant was also available for the first time in the A6, offering a 2-litre TFSI 211 PS (155 kW) engine combined with a 45 PS (33 kW) electric motor. Electric power is supplied via a 1.3 kWh lithium-ion battery, with electric-only range of 3 km for constant 60 km/h (37.28 mph) drive and a top speed of 100 km/h (62.14 mph).
The market launch of the A6 Hybrid was scheduled for 2012. However, production of the US model was delayed.
The Audi A6 hybrid was discontinued due to low sales in 2014 after roughly 4,000 units sold.
A6 allroad quattro (2012–2018)
The 2013 A6 allroad Quattro was unveiled at the 2012 Geneva Motor Show, alongside the 2012 RS4 Avant. Sales began in 2012. The first UK deliveries arrived in July 2012.
The allroad variant contains several unique features. Audi designed more than 1,100 new, unique parts for the allroad, setting it apart from the standard A6 and making it a true all-terrain vehicle. Most obvious, the allroad received special bumpers and fender flares, giving it an aggressive offroad appearance. The bumpers and fender flares feature a tough-wearing, matte finish, contrasting the rest of the body. The roof received this same coating, as well as four longitudinal ribs for increased strength. The unique bumpers also have integrated aluminium skid plates. The allroad featured larger diameter tires than the standard A6 for improved offroad capabilities. Redesigned headlights, larger side mirrors, and a lack of door "rub strips" are unique to the allroad.
The allroad comes standard with an adjustable air suspension system can lift the car high enough to provide 208 mm (8 in) of ground clearance; a low-range mode (an option with manual transmission), absent from other quattro-equipped vehicles, can be selected with the touch of a button. When used together, the two systems made it possible for the allroad to complete an official Land Rover test-course, thus far it is the only car-based SUV that has been proven capable of doing so in testing.
Conversely, the air suspension can lower the vehicle down to only 142 mm (6 in) above road level, and simultaneously stiffen the spring and damper rates to provide a sporty driving experience, much like that of the conventional A6 with the sports suspension.
It went on sale in early 2012. Early variants included 3.0 TFSI quattro (310 PS), 3.0 TDI quattro (204 PS), 3.0 TDI quattro (245 PS), 3.0 TDI quattro (313 PS).
A6 L (2012–2018)
The A6 L (built in China for the Chinese market as a long wheelbase alternative to the standard A6) was unveiled in 2012 in Guangzhou International Sports Arena. Early models include A6 L TFSI, A6 L 30 FSI, A6 L 35 FSI, A6 L 35 FSI quattro, A6 L 50 TFSI quattro.
S6 (2012–2018)
Available as the S6 saloon and S6 Avant, they included twin-turbo V8 engine rated 420 PS (309 kW; 414 hp) at 5500–6400 rpm and 550 N⋅m (406 lbf⋅ft) at 1450–5250 rpm, recuperation and start-stop systems, cylinder deactivation, Active Noise Cancellation system, seven-speed S tronic transmission, quattro permanent all-wheel drive system with a self-locking centre differential and torque vectoring (optional sport differential), adaptive air suspension lowers the body by 10 mm (0.4 in), internally ventilated brake discs (optional carbon fibre-ceramic discs), matte black calipers with S6 logos, 8.5Jx19-inch cast aluminium wheels in a unique five parallel-spoke design (optional seven different 19- or 20-inch wheels (four from quattro GmbH), including 20-inch titanium-look wheels with a five-arm rotor design), 255/40-series tires, Audi drive select driving dynamics system, optional dynamic steering, single-frame grille with aluminium applications and chromed horizontal double bars, exterior mirrors feature aluminium-look housings, S6 sedan with spoiler on the trunk (S6 Avant has a roof spoiler), diffuser on the rear bumper in platinum gray with an aluminium-look offset edge, four elliptical chrome-tipped tailpipes, choice of eight body colours (including exclusive shades Estoril Blue, crystal effect and Prism Silver, crystal effect), body decorated with S6 and V8T badges, leather sport steering wheel with coloured stitching, footrest and pedals and soft keys of the MMI operating system in an aluminium-look finish, decorative inlays in matt brushed aluminium (optional carbon, fine grain ash natural brown, layered Beaufort oak), choice of 3 colours for headlining, instrument panel, carpet and seats (black, lunar silver and goa beige (only for the seat upholstery)); Pearl Nappa leather and Alcantara seat upholstery (optional Milano and Valcona leather), height-adjustable sport seats with power lumbar supports and embossed S logos (optional power-adjustable comfort seats with memory function, power-adjustable S sport seats with integrated head restraints).
Other options include xenon plus headlights with an all-weather light, LED rear lights, an electromechanical parking brake, driver information system with colour display, MMI radio plus includes a Bluetooth interface, Audi sound system with ten speakers, MMI navigation plus (hard drive, an eight-inch monitor, MMI touch input system), 15-speaker Bang & Olufsen Advanced Sound System.
The S6 sedan was unveiled at the 2011 Frankfurt Motor Show.
S6 sedan and Avant models went on sale in early 2012.
A6L e-tron
The concept vehicle was unveiled in Auto China 2012 in Beijing.
It is a plug-in hybrid version of A6 L with 2.0 TFSI 211 PS (155 kW; 208 hp) engine combined with a 95 PS (70 kW; 94 hp) electric motor. Electric power is supplied via a 14.1 kWh lithium-ion battery, with all-electric range of 80 km (49.71 mi) for constant 60 km/h (37.28 mph) drive. Other features include MMI navigation plus developed in Audi Infotainment Tech Center (ITC) in Beijing.
The series production plug-in hybrid car will be available in China in 2016 on the long-wheelbase version, using the same hybrid vehicle powertrain like the concept vehicle. It has a power output of 180 kW (241 hp), with 500 N⋅m (369 lb⋅ft) of torque. All-electric range will be 50 km (31.1 mi). Acceleration from 0–60 mph (97 km/h) takes 8.4 seconds. Fuel consumption will be 2.2 L/100 km (106.9 mpg‑US).
A6 Black Edition (2013–)
Available in Saloon and Avant bodies, the Black Edition is a version of the A6 S line with 177 PS 2.0-litre TDI or higher engines (excluding S6) in front-wheel-drive or Quattro all-wheel-drive configurations, for the UK market. It included 20-inch rotor-design alloy wheels with a dark titanium finish, black grille, number plate surrounds and window frame strips, and privacy glass extending from the B-pillar rearwards; black roof rails, Piano Black inlays, sports seats upholstered in black Valcona leather, black headlining, BOSE audio system with DAB radio, Audi Music Interface (AMI) for iPod connection.
Sales began in November 2012, with deliveries beginning in early 2013.
RS6 Avant (2013–2018)
The RS6 Avant is a higher performance version of the S6 Avant, with power increased to 560 PS (412 kW; 552 hp) at 5700–6700 rpm and 700 N⋅m (516.3 lbf⋅ft) at 1750–5500 rpm. It features a cylinder on demand system that deactivates intake and exhaust valves of 4 cylinders (2, 3, 5 and 8), eight-speed tiptronic transmission with shortened shift times and D and S driving modes, quattro permanent all-wheel drive system with torque vectoring with self-locking centre differential with an elevated locking value and oil cooler, adaptive air suspension lowering body by 20 mm (1 in) (optional tauter sport suspension plus with Dynamic Ride Control), option is dynamic steering, four internally vented 390 mm (15 in) diameter brake discs in wave design with a wave-like outer contour (optional 420 mm (17 in) diameter carbon fibre-ceramic brake discs with anthracite gray calipers), black six-piston brake calipers (optional red brake calipers), electronic stabilization control with Sport and off modes, high-gloss 20-inch forged wheels in a seven twin-spoke design (optional 21-inch cast wheels in high-gloss silver, polished black or polished titanium-look), matte aluminium applications on the body, high-gloss black protective grille at the front of the car, the bumpers, the fender, sill flares and the large roof spoiler; rear diffuser with two large elliptical exhaust tailpipes, a choice of 9 body colours (including exclusive shade Daytona Gray matte), dial instruments feature black faces and white dials and red needles, flat-bottomed three-spoke multifunction steering wheel, illuminated entry sills, driver information system (DIS) sport RS logos, RS6-specific driver information system, footrest and pedals and switches in the MMI navigation plus terminal in aluminium finish, decorative bezel surrounding the retractable monitor in a piano finish, interior door openers in a delicate double-bar design, standard Carbon inlays (with six additional materials as options), standard black headlining (optional Silver or black Alcantara), RS sport seats with side bolsters and integrated head restraints and RS6 logos upholstered in black Alcantara and leather with diamond quilting at centre sections (optional honeycomb-quilted Valcona leather in either black or Moon Silver), optional power-adjustable deluxe seats with memory function, two sportily molded rear seats (optional three-person bench seat), xenon plus headlights, LED rear lights, a tire-pressure control system, illuminated entry sills, custom driver-information system, parking system plus, cruise control, three-zone automatic air conditioning, MMI navigation plus with MMI touch and the 10-speaker Audi sound system.
Optional packages includes customized quattro badges on the central front air inlet. Carbon appearance package includes alternate front splitter and diffuser shapes. Optional Dynamic package increases top speed to 280 km/h (173.98 mph). Optional Dynamic plus package increases top speed to 305 km/h (189.52 mph). Other options include LED headlights with a unique design, the sport differential on the rear axle, Comfort package, head-up display, the high-performance driver assistance systems, Bang & Olufsen Advanced Sound System with 15 speakers and 1,200 watts of total power, Bluetooth online car phone.
Body styles
In some specific European markets (like France), facelift models (2016 and onwards) received a never before offered 1.8 TFSI (190 PS) petrol engine. Models paired with the 7-speed automatic S tronic gearbox have an "ultra" tag added at the end of their name.
A6L with 2.0 TFSI (180 PS) was sold as A6L TFSI in China.
In the US, Canada, UK A6 Saloon with 3.0 TFSI Quattro (310 PS) replaced the A6 3.0 TFSI Quattro (300 PS).
In the UK, A6 Avant with 3.0 TFSI Quattro (310 PS) replaced the A6 3.0 TFSI Quattro (300 PS).
Engines
For A6 3.0 TDI Quattro (245PS), the 580 N-m model replaced the 500 N-m model in the UK.
Transmissions
For A6 Saloon 3.0 TFSI Quattro (310 PS), 7-speed S-Tronic is used in the UK model, 8-speed Tiptronic is used in the US, Canada models.
A6 3.0 TDI quattro (313 PS) was sold as A6 3.0 BiTDI quattro in the UK.
Safety
Marketing
As part of the Audi A6 Avant launch in the UK, BBH London, Knucklehead, The Whitehouse, The Mill produced the 'Hummingbird' TV commercial, directed by Daniel Barber. The commercial premiered during the ITV1's coverage of the Rugby World Cup. The commercial was to imagine what a bird designed by Audi would look like and to reflect the car's ultra-lightweight technology. Johann Strauss's 'Open Road, Open Sky' was sung by legendary American baritone and automobile lover John Charles Thomas. In addition, 60 second and 30 versions of the ads were supported by press, print and radio campaigns, as well as a presence on the Daily Telegraph's iPad app.
As part of the Audi A6 launch in Taiwan, 2011 Audi Fashion Festival featured the theme of 'A6- The sum of Progress', including Shiatzy Chen, Kiki Huang, Robyn Hung and an artistic jewelry brand, Chen Chan.
As part of the 2013 Audi S6 sedan launch in the US market, 3 different versions of 'Prom' commercial were premiered during 2013 Super Bowl game. The 60-second ad, created by Venables Bell & Partners, features a teenage boy. Voters were to decide their favourite version of the commercial 24 hours on Friday before the Super Bowl game, with winning entry shown on Saturday at Audi's YouTube channel and during the actual game at CBS.
As part of the RS6 Avant launch, Audi Land of Quattro Alpen Tour 2013 featured RS6 Avant begins on September 23, travelling across twelve driving stages in 6 countries (Klagenfurt – the capital of Carinthia, Austria, Monaco).
In the Audi RS6 Avant TV commercial titled 'Perfect Fit', it featured a 2012 Audi R18 with the high downforce sprint bodywork in the guise of Audi R18 e‑tron quattro.
C8 (Typ 4K, 2018)
The new A6 was unveiled ahead of the 2018 Geneva Motor Show, and went on sale in June 2018. All engines are offered with a mild hybrid drivetrain that can reduce fuel consumption by up to 0.7 litres per 100 kilometres for the V6-engined vehicles. The A6 will be offered in seven new exterior colours and seven colours which are available in current models.
German models went on sale in June 2018. Early models include the 50 TDI quattro.
The fifth generation of the A6 is also available as an 'Avant' (Audi terminology for a station wagon). High-performance variants of the 'Avant' were also produced, with the S6 Avant arriving in 2019 alongside the RS6 Avant.
Early European models include 40 TDI, 45 TDI, 50 TDI.
S6 (2019–2025)
The S6 is a performance version of the A6. Sitting between the base A6 and high-performance RS6, the S model is powered by a 2.9-litre twin-turbo V6 with 40:60 front and rear axle all-wheel drive. Additional equipment includes wheel-selective torque control, damping control (optional adaptive air suspension), lowered body by 20 mm (0.8 in) (with air suspension, auto mode lowers body by further 10 mm (0.4 in)), optional sport differential, electronic chassis platform with 5 drive select modes, 400 mm (15.7 in) front and 350 mm (13.8 in) rear brake discs with black (optional red) aluminium calipers (optional six-piston ceramic brake system includes 400 mm (15.7 in) front and 370 mm (14.6 in) rear brake discs), 20-inch wheels (optional 21-inch wheels), 255/40 tires (optional 20-inch Performance tires), sport seats with embossed S logo (optional integrated head restraints, embossed S logo and rhombus pattern) with optional ventilation and massage, Alcantara (optional Valcona) seat upholstery in colours black, rotor gray or arras red with contrasting stitching; aluminium inlays (optional fine grain ash), optional flat-bottomed rim steering wheel, stainless steel footrest and pedal caps, and illuminated aluminium sill trims with S logo.
3.0 TDI model includes 7 kW (9.5 PS; 9.4 hp) electric powered compressor, Euro 6d temp emission standard compliance.
European models went on sale in mid-2019. Early United States, Asia and Middle East models include 2.9 TFSI.
A6 allroad quattro (2019–2025)
The allroad Quattro is a high-riding wagon. Equipment includes a choice of three body colours (gavial green, glacier white, Soho brown), 19-inch wheels in exclusive design, black sport seats with leather/Alcantara upholstery, aluminium inlays and illuminated door sill trims.
European models went on sale in June 2019. Early models include 45 TDI, 50 TDI, 55 TDI.
RS 6 Avant (2019–2025)
The RS6 is a high-performance version of the A6. Sitting above the base A6 and mid-tier S6, the RS model is powered by a 4.0-litre twin-turbo V8 and all-wheel drive. The body is modified with 40 mm (1.6 in) wider body on each side with flared wheel arches, front headlights from Audi A7, optional RS-specific Matrix LED laser headlight with darkened trims with dynamic turn signal, 4.0 TFSI engine rated 600 PS (441 kW; 592 hp) at 6250 rpm and 800 N⋅m (590 lb⋅ft) at 2050-4500 rpm with a separate lithium-ion battery. The centre diff has a 40:60 torque split front to rear, but in certain situations can direct up to 70 per cent of the power forwards or as much as 85 per cent to the rear wheels and is also fitted with wheel-selective torque control. The RS 6 has RS adaptive air suspension or RS sport suspension plus with Dynamic Ride Control (DRC), progressive steering, Audi drive select dynamic handling system with six profiles, 21-inch cast aluminium wheels in 10-spoke star design with 275/35 size tires (optional 22-inch 5-V-spoke trapezoid design wheels in silver, matt titanium look, gloss turned finish, and gloss anthracite black, gloss turned finish with 285/30 tires), 420 mm (16.5 in) front and 370 mm (14.6 in) rear steel brake discs with black (optional red) calipers (RS ceramic brakes includes 440 mm (17.3 in) front and 370 mm (14.6 in) brake discs with gray, red or blue calipers), 'RS Monitor' MMI touch response display, optional head-up display, aluminium shift paddles, RS and RS 6 logos at steering wheel interior, seats and the illuminated front door sill trims; seats in black pearl Nappa leather/Alcantara upholstery with RS embossing and rhombus pattern (optional perforated Valcona leather with honeycomb pattern and RS embossing), optional carbon, wood natural, gray-brown, or matt aluminium inlays, optional swiveling trailer towing hitch with electric release, optional camera-based trailer assist. RS design packages (red and gray) includes steering wheel rim, gear lever gaiter and knee pads in Alcantara with contrasting stitching; belt straps with colour edging, RS floor mats. Dynamic package adds quattro sport differential dynamic all-wheel steering, increased top speed to 280 km/h (174.0 mph). Dynamic package plus package adds dynamic package feature, plus increased top speed to 305 km/h (189.5 mph).
European models went on sale in end of 2019.
A6 e-tron concept (2021)
Based on A6/A7 Sportback body, it included 22-inch wheels, LED projectors built in into each side of the body, 100 kWh battery.
The all new Audi A6 E-tron was released in early 2025.
Engines
All variants are offered in mild hybrid engines as standard, which include a 48-volt MHEV system.
Transmission
All variants can come with either a 7-speed S-Tronic DCT or an 8-speed "Tiptronic" automatic.
Markets
North America
The 2019 Audi A6 Sedan made its North American debut at the 2018 New York International Auto Show. At that time, Audi had stated that the A6 Avant would not be sold in the United States, however the RS6 Avant was sold from the 2020 model year. The A6 allroad was also sold in the United States and Canada since 2020.
China - The fifth-generation Audi A6L was listed for the Chinese market in January 2019. Engine choices available consist of two turbocharged petrol engines: a 2-litre unit and a 3-litre unit. Both are equipped with a 7-speed dual-clutch gearbox as standard. Trim levels consist of the 40, 50, and 55 trims and are all TFSI models.
India - The fifth generation of the Audi A6 will be the first generation of the A6 to be assembled and sold in India. It will launch in May 2019.
Bangladesh - The fifth generation of the Audi A6 will be the first generation of the A6 to be sold in Bangladesh.
Thailand - The fifth generation of the Audi A6 will be the first generation of the A6 to be sold in Thailand.
Brunei - The A6 was launched since end of 2019/early 2020 in Brunei with offered its trims: 2.0-litre engine (40 TFSI) and 3.0-litre Quattro engine (55 TFSI).
Awards
Audi A6 allroad quattro won Auto Bild Allrad's All-Wheel Drive Car of the Year under the Crossover category.
Production
Following the launch of the new A6, Audi officially stopped production of the A6 and A7 TDI vehicles using V6 TDI Gen2 evo EU6 engines due to an investigation on newly discovered emissions cheating software.
Safety
C9 (Typ 4L, 2025)
In March 2023, Audi CEO Markus Duesmann announced that the A4 would be renamed the A5, while the A6 would become the A7, with the future A4 e‑tron and A6 e‑tron to be sold as electric vehicles only. In February 2025 this renaming was cancelled, therefore the internal combustion engine version is marketed as the sixth-generation A6.
The sixth-generation A6 was officially unveiled on 4 March 2025, firstly as the Avant station wagon model. Orders for the A6 Avant began in March 2025 with deliveries set to commence in late May 2025. The sedan model was unveiled on 15 April 2025, with sales of the sedan model started in the same month.
The new A6 is built on the PPC (Premium Platform Combustion) architecture, which made its debut on the A5 (B10). The platform can also be equipped with all-wheel steering and a Quattro sport differential on Quattro all-wheel drive models. The A6 is also available with the adaptive air suspension and second-generation digital OLED lighting technology. Audi claims the A6 Avant is the most aerodynamic Audi Avant model with a combustion engine with a drag coefficient of 0.25, part of this is because of the large air curtains and controllable air intakes at the front, the design of the roof spoiler, and aerodynamic panels on the sides of the rear window. The A6 Avant is 60 mm (2.4 in) longer than its predecessor.
Audi claims the interior of the A6 offers "a first-class experience". The dashboard features an 11.9-inch digital driver's display, 14.5-inch infotainment touchscreen display, and an optional 10.9-inch front passenger touchscreen display. Other available interior features are a 3D Bang & Olufsen sound system, an adjustable panoramic sunroof, an air quality package includes an ionizer and fine dust sensor, and four-zone automatic climate control. The A6 Avant has a maximum boot space of 1,532 L (54.1 cu ft) when the rear seats folded, which can be folded separately in 40:20:40 format.
A6L (2026–)
The A6L was unveiled on 16 January 2026. with preorders opening on 10 March 2026 and went on sale on 25 March 2026.
Engines
All engines are equipped with the MHEV Plus mild hybrid system includes a 48-volt battery, belt-alternator starter, and an electric motor/generator. At full acceleration, the electric motor can provide an additional 24 PS (18 kW; 24 hp) and 230 N⋅m (170 lb⋅ft) of torque, while also using the braking energy to recharge the small battery. According to Audi, this setup allows the A6 to drive solely on electric power during low-speed maneuvers.
In May 2025, the plug-in hybrid electric vehicle (PHEV) powertrain marketed as the e-hybrid quattro was introduced and it is available two power outputs. The plug-in hybrid powertrain uses the 2.0 TFSI engine from the EA888 series producing 252 PS (185 kW; 249 hp), combined with an electric motor that produces an output of 143 PS (105 kW; 141 hp). The 25.9 kWh lithium-ion battery is positioned above the rear axle, the battery capacity increase by 45% compared to its predecessor, which means the A6 models can drive more than 100 km (62 miles) in electric-only range. The maximum AC charging power of 11 kW and the charging time duration from 0 to 100 percent in just 2.5 hours. The degree of thrust recuperation performance in electric driving mode (EV mode) can be adjusted to three different levels using paddles on the steering wheel and the vehicle automatically recovers energy when this function is activated. Two operating modes are available to the hybrid management system: “EV” and “hybrid.” In EV mode, the plug-in hybrid models run solely on electric power. In hybrid mode, the hybrid management system maintains a specific charge level as needed in order to save enough electrical energy for later use.  Combined with the quattro ultra drive and standard all-wheel steering, the electrified dual-clutch transmission increases manoeuvrability at low speeds and provides additional stability at higher speeds.
Safety
Use in China
According to Dunne & Company, a research company, as of 2011, purchases in China and Hong Kong make up about half of the 229,200 Audi A6s sold in the world. By 2012 many government officials in China began driving with Audi A6s. After a 1994 campaign from the Chinese government to have officials stop driving Mercedes stretch limousines, the officials began using black Audi A6 cars. Michael Wines of The New York Times wrote that "More than a perk, the black Audi is a rolling advertisement for its occupant’s importance and impunity in a nation obsessed with status."
Production and sales
References
External links
Media related to Audi A6 at Wikimedia Commons
Audi A6 at Audi corporate website


--- Audi A8 ---
The Audi A8 is a full-size luxury sedan manufactured and marketed by the German automaker Audi since 1994. Succeeding the Audi V8, and currently in its fourth generation, the A8 has been offered with either front- or permanent all-wheel drive and in short- and long-wheelbase variants. The first two generations employed the Volkswagen Group D platform, with the current generation deriving from the MLB platform. After the original model's 1994 release, Audi released the second generation in late 2002, the third in late 2009, and the fourth and current iteration in 2017. Noted as the first mass-market car with an aluminium chassis, all A8 models have used this construction method co-developed with Alcoa and marketed as the Audi Space Frame.
A mechanically upgraded, high-performance version of the A8 debuted in 1996 as the Audi S8. Produced exclusively at Audi's Neckarsulm plant, the S8 is fitted standard with Audi's quattro all-wheel drive system. The S8 was only offered with a short-wheelbase for the first three generations, being joined by a long-wheelbase variant for the fourth generation.
In March 2026, reports stated that Audi had stopped taking new A8 orders in Germany from 18 February 2026, signaling the wind down of the current D5 generation. At the time, Audi has confirmed a successor is in the works, and availability in other markets was reported to depend on remaining inventory. The development followed broader reports that Audi was shifting strategic focus toward SUVs and electric vehicles.
D2 (Typ 4D; 1994)
Development
In 1982, Ferdinand Piëch signed an agreement with Aluminum Company of America. The objective was to design and develop a car that would be substantially lighter than any other vehicles in its class (to compensate for the fact that standard all-wheel drive was around 100 kg (220 lb) heavier than competitors' rear-wheel drive). In the late 1980s, it was decided that the target vehicle would be a successor to the V8 (Typ 4C) flagship introduced in 1988. By 1990, a final design by Chris Bird and Dirk van Braeckel was chosen and frozen for series production in mid-1991. In September 1993, the Audi Space Frame (ASF) Concept was unveiled at the 1993 Frankfurt Motor Show (IAA) as a D2 Typ 4D prototype in polished aluminum. Pilot production began in December 1993 and development ended in early 1994, at a total cost of $700 million (£418.1 million).
Introduction
The Audi A8 (Typ 4D) was presented in February 1994 and debuted at the 1994 Geneva Auto Show in March, with full-scale factory production commencing in June 1994, although it was not until October 1996, for the 1997 model year that it became available in North America. Unlike its predecessor, the Audi V8 model, which was built on an existing steel platform, the A8 debuted on the then-new Volkswagen Group D2 platform, an all aluminium monocoque, marketed as the "Audi Space Frame" (ASF), which helped to reduce weight and preserve structural rigidity. The saloon/sedan was offered in both the A8 (standard wheelbase), and the A8 L extended or long-wheelbase (LWB) version. The A8 L adds 5 inches (127 mm) of rear legroom. Updates to the car in 1997 included the addition of six interior airbags. The A8 was designed as a competitor to fellow German rivals Mercedes Benz S Class and the BMW 7 Series. It also competed against the British Jaguar XJ and the Japanese Lexus LS.
In 1997, Audi introduced the first series production electronic stability control (ESP) for all-wheel drive vehicles (Audi A8 and Audi A6)– the world's first production cars with both front and rear side airbags.
For 1997, the new A8 was available with either front-wheel drive (FWD), or the Torsen-based quattro permanent four-wheel drive. The FWD models are powered by a 2.8-litre V6 engine, producing 142 kW (193 PS; 190 bhp), and a 3.7-litre V8 engine producing 169 kW (230 PS; 227 bhp), while the quattro received a 4.2-litre V8 producing 221 kW (300 PS; 296 bhp).
The A8 is available with standard luxury amenities, including dual-zone climate control, wood and leather interior trim, 14-way power and heated seats, and an enhanced Bose audio system.
In 1998, upon assuming office, German Chancellor Gerhard Schröder chose the A8 to be his official state car, marking a break from tradition, as his predecessors had preferred Mercedes-Benz S-Class models. Upon being re-elected to second term in 2002, he moved on to the next generation A8's sister model Volkswagen Phaeton.
In 1999, Audi's flagship received side curtain airbags, new colours, and restructuring of option packages. The North American "warm weather package" added a solar sunroof, which allows the interior ventilation fans to run, keeping the interior cool while the car is parked with the engine turned off. Changes to all models included a larger passenger-side mirror, and a first aid kit located in the rear centre armrest.
In 1999, for the 2000 model year, came a minor front-end restyle, with new, larger, clear headlights, a revised grille, and lower front valance with standard projection fog lamps. In the interior, the seats received a new, horizontal stitch pattern. Also, the 3.7-litre V8 FWD model was dropped, leaving the 2.8 V6 model and the long-wheelbase and short-wheelbase 4.2-litre quattro. These restyled cars also featured revised external door handles and an integrated radio antenna. For 2000, the North American A8 line-up was expanded to include the A8 L.
In 2001, Audi introduced its new W12 engine, a compact 6.0-litre unit developed by effectively mating two VR6 engines together at the crankshaft. The engine quickly became available in the A8, though only to European and Asian customers. From its introduction through its discontinuation in 2003, only 750 of the D2 "W12" models were produced. 2001 also marked the debut of the high-performance S8 variant in North American markets. It produced 360 hp.
In 2002, the A8 L received standard xenon high-intensity discharge lamp (HID) headlights, and a heated steering wheel. A tyre pressure monitoring system (TPMS), an updated Symphony II stereo, and new exterior colours were also added. For 2002, all A8 variants received a trunk/boot interior release lever to facilitate escape in the event an individual became trapped within.
Factory production of this generation ceased at Number 105,092 on 4 August 2002.
Coupé (prototype)
In 1997, IVM Automotive of Munich, Germany built a two-door Audi A8 Coupé. The car was unveiled at the 1997 Geneva Motor Show. Audi contracted IVM to build the prototype, and was considering production of the vehicle. The coupé had a re-engineered aluminium body, shorter than the production A8 saloon. Like the Mercedes-Benz CL-Class, there was no central "B" pillar, giving the car a seamless design with a gradually sloping roofline. The car included custom leather seats which could seat four. Ultimately, Audi decided not to put the A8 Coupé into production, citing lower-than-expected sales figures for the similar BMW 8 Series (E31) and Mercedes-Benz S-Class Coupé. Only one A8 Coupé was ever built. The single prototype, painted in a colour called "Ming Blue pearl", remains the property of IVM Automotive, and resides in Munich. Its last public appearance was in 2002 on a series of test drives.
Audi introduced the S8 4.2 quattro into the European market in 1996. The S8 followed the naming convention of other high-performance Audi "S" models, such as the Audi A6-derived S6. In some markets such as the UK, the S8 was only available with the automatic transmission. Cosmetically, Audi differentiated the S8 from the A8 with solid aluminium alloy door mirror housings, chrome-effect beltline and lower front grille trim, and polished twin exhaust pipes, along with subtle "S8" badging. 14-way power adjustable and heated sports front seats with memory function were fitted as were heated rear seats. Standard alloy wheels were 18-inch cast aluminium alloy "Avus" six-spoke style. After the 1999 facelift, 20-inch polished nine-spoke RS wheels became an option. In 2002, 18-inch nine-spoke RS wheels became a no-cost option.
At the same time of the A8's facelift in late 1999, the S8 received the same cosmetic upgrades. This update marked the release of the S8 to the North American market. Production of the D2 series S8 ended in September 2002.
The D2 series S8 featured an uprated, 250 kW (335 hp) version of the 4.2-litre V8 with four valves per cylinder. From late 1999, Audi increased this to five valves per cylinder with power increased to 265 kW (355 hp) and 430 N⋅m (317 lb⋅ft). From launch in 1996, European-market models came standard with a six-speed manual transmission. A sports-recalibrated version of the ZF 5HP24 five-speed Tiptronic automatic, featuring "Dynamic Shift Programme" (DSP) was released a year later and was the only transmission available in most other markets.
A retuned, 20-millimetre (0.8 in) lowered sports suspension included a 30 percent stiffer spring rate and 40 percent more compression damping in the shock absorbers. Speed-sensitive "Servotronic" power assisted steering was also standard. The brakes featured a Bosch 5.3 anti-lock braking system (ABS), with electronic brakeforce distribution (EBD), and worked radially ventilated front discs. From 2002, an upgraded Bosch 5.7 electronic stability programme became standard fitment.
Engines
D3 (Typ 4E; 2002)
Previewed as the Audi Avantissimo concept at the 2001 IAA exhibition in Frankfurt, the second-generation Audi A8 (Typ 4E) built on the Volkswagen Group D3 platform was unveiled via press release in July 2002 and introduced in November 2002 in Europe and in June 2003 (as a 2004 model) in the United States. The model was longer than the previous generation, with room for four or five large adult occupants in the cabin, depending on rear seat configuration. The D3 development program began in 1996, with the design process commencing in Ingolstadt in 1997. The whole Audi design studio based in Ingolstadt first contributed sketch proposals, from which numerous different themes emerged. Six of them were developed into full-size clay models and worked up in a traditional manner adjacent to full-size tape drawings. At least three one-quarter scale models were produced to explore other design variations.
The six full-size exterior clay models were reduced to two in late 1998 and these continued to be refined in parallel for a year. At the end of 1999, the final theme selection was made by Miklós Kovács and Imre Hasanic, the main contributing designers. This lengthy development time was in part due to the body being made from aluminium, a material less able to take the small radii of sharp feature lines such as those on the (steel bodied) A4 (B6) designed in 1998.
In parallel to the exterior design development, the interior design was progressed with a total of four full-size models produced, and the production car's horizontally-themed instrument panel design dominant from early on, with Norbert Schneider, Mark Bergold and Enzo Rothfuss the main contributing designers.
Grouping major controls nearer to the driver for a more driver focused identity whilst creating a more airy and spacious feel were early priorities for the interior design team, which was headed by Jurgen Albamonte. This was in part facilitated by the Multi Media Interface (MMI) designed by Jurgen Schröder, that pioneered on the D3 A8 after the Audi Avantissimo concept car preview, and also by class leading colour and trim from Barbara Krömeke and Melinda Jenkins.
Under the supervision of Dany Garand, during the first half of 2000 exterior and interior clay models were digitized and developed using digital design tools in a supporting, not leading, capacity. The D3 final production design was later frozen in the summer of 2000 for an August 2002 start of production.
The A8 was previewed at the 2001 Frankfurt Motor Show by the Audi Avantissimo concept car. This concept introduced much of the technology later available on the series production A8 D3, including: Multi Media Interface, 6-speed automatic transmission with shift paddles, self-levelling adaptive air suspension with continuously controlled damping, electric park brake, bi-xenon headlights with static Adaptive Front Lighting System (AFS) curve headlights, dashboard, and driver identification systems with a fingerprint scanner. Unlike the Avantissimo, though, an estate version of the A8 never entered production.
As with the previous version, two body variants of the second generation A8 are offered, the A8 (standard, or short wheelbase), and the long-wheelbase (LWB) A8 L. The A8 L adds 120 mm (4.7 inches) to the rear legroom and 11 mm (0.43 in) to the overall height of the car.
For quattro all-wheel drive models, a ZF 6HP26-A61 (lower torque capacity 6HP19 version for 6 cylinder models) six-speed Tiptronic automatic transmission with "Dynamic Shift Programme" (DSP) and "sport" mode, with optional steering wheel mounted paddle-shifters, is the only transmission offering. Output is transmitted via Audi's quattro generation IV all-wheel drive system using the Torsen T-1 centre differential with a default 50:50 torque split front/rear. If the road conditions change, the purely mechanical Torsen differential responds without any delay; it can divert up to 70 percent of power to the front or rear axles.
Innovations
World premiere of Multi Media Interface (MMI) in-car user interface (similar to BMW iDrive)
Multiplexed high speed MOST Bus optical fiber data networks (interconnecting tens of microprocessors on common databusses), integrated with MMI
First Audi with Bi-Xenon HID headlamps for both low and high beam
World premiere of static Adaptive Front Lighting System (AFS) curve headlights (from Hella)
First Audi with 4-wheel Adaptive Air Suspension and Continuous Damping Control (CDC)-(Skyhook suspension).
First Audi GPS navigation system with DVD maps
First Audi with a six-speed automatic transmission (Tiptronic)
First Audi featuring driver identification system
In 2005, new internal combustion engines became available. For the European and Asian market customers, the entry-level 3.0-litre V6 engine was replaced with a new 3.1-litre unit (badged as "3.2") featuring Fuel Stratified Injection (FSI), which it shared with the Audi B7 A4 and Audi C6 A6. The top-of-the-line W12 version debuted that year. The advantage of the W12 engine layout is its compact packaging, allowing Audi to build a 12-cylinder sedan with all-wheel drive, whereas a conventional V12 could only have a rear-wheel drive configuration as it would have no space in the engine bay for a differential and other components required to power the front wheels. In fact, Audi's 6.0-litre W12 is slightly smaller (by overall dimensions) than the 4.2-litre V8. This model was also the first to be offered with LED running lights.
In addition to the added powertrains, Audi restyled the D3 platform A8 range slightly in 2005, giving all variants a taller, wider trapezoidal single-frame grille. The top-of-the-line W12 engined W12 version was the first model to be equipped with this grille; V8 engined models were fitted with the new grille the following year. The W12 variant was known for its appearance as the hero car in Transporter 2, and its sequel, Transporter 3.
The D3 generation A8 introduced the 235 kW (315 hp) 4.1-litre Turbocharged Direct Injection (TDI) V8 engine (subsequently uprated to 240 kW (322 hp)). It is badged as the "4.2 TDI" and is based on the "4.0 TDI" badged 3.9L turbodiesel engine. It uses two turbochargers and two intercoolers, with each turbocharger functioning exclusively for one bank of four cylinders.
The adaptive air suspension gives the vehicle clearance a range from its normal 120 mm up to 145 mm in lift mode and down to 95 mm in the Autobahn mode, which is automatically activated when a speed of more than 120 km/h (75 mph) is maintained for more than 30 seconds.
In September 2005, Audi became the first car maker to offer the 1,000-watt 14-channel ICEpower sound system option from Bang & Olufsen.
2007 facelift
Changes include:
Updated front fascia incorporating Audi's signature single frame full-nose grill. Complementing the pronounced styling of the nose, designers ditched the understated round fog lights, opting for larger rectangular fog light housings- inside a set of 'Side-View illuminators' have been integrated into the housing; aiding drivers in low-light or poor visibility conditions by automatically illuminating depending on speed and steering angle. Side-View Illuminators operate independent of fog lights.
Updated tail-light assembly featuring brighter and more efficient LED bulbs. Dual rear fog lights are still standard.
New optional features:
Full speed range adaptive cruise control ACC Plus, can now brake until stop
Braking guard radar-guided forward collision warning system
"Side Assist" detects cars in the A8's blind spots
Lane assist helps when the driver attempts to change lanes without signalling first.
A8 L W12 quattro Security
The A8 L W12 quattro Security is an armoured vehicle with B6+ and B7 (European standard) ballistic ratings. It includes a W12 engine rated at 331 kW; 444 hp (450 PS) and 580 N⋅m (428 lbf⋅ft) of torque, emergency exit system featuring pyrotechnic blown-out doors, fire extinguisher system with spray jets located in the engine compartment, underbody and in the wheel arches; smoke extractor in passenger compartment, run flat tires, bullet proof windows, the full protection plus package and LED flashers in the exterior mirrors. Buyers are also offered facility to dispatch two drivers on a special training course.
The A8L W12 was featured as the protagonist's car in the Transporter film series.
S8 5.2 FSI quattro
The S8 high-performance sports variant, now called the "Audi S8 5.2 FSI quattro", was announced in the last quarter of 2005 and full production started in June 2006 and ended in September 2009.
The S8 includes subtle exterior changes to distinguish it from its related A8. The trapezoidal "single-frame" grille bears the characteristic Audi "S model" vertical strut detail which is highlighted in a chrome finish. "S8" badging is displayed front and rear, whilst "V10" badges are displayed on each front wing above the side-repeater indicators. The rear boot-lid incorporates a subtle rear spoiler, and the rear is finished with four chromed oval exhaust tailpipes. Adaptive Xenon-plus high-intensity discharge (HID) headlamps include static turning lights, along with "swiveling" dynamic cornering lights. Daytime running lamps are five light-emitting diodes (LEDs) incorporated into a cloverleaf designed reflector, incorporated into the main headlamp housing.
The D3 series S8 features a 5.2-litre all-aluminium alloy four-valves per cylinder V10 petrol engine. This engine, a first for Audi, is often incorrectly referred to as a derivative of the Lamborghini 5-litre V10 engine fitted to the first-generation Gallardo. The 5.2-litre V10 in the S8 is based on Audi's 4.2-litre V8 FSI. Lamborghini replaced its own 5-litre engine with the 5.2-litre engine from Audi R8 for the second generation Gallardo and its successor, Huracán.
A sports-optimised ZF 6HP26-A61 six-speed Tiptronic automatic transmission with "Dynamic Shift Programme" (DSP) and "sport" mode, with steering wheel mounted paddle-shifters, is the only offering. Output is transmitted via Audi's quattro generation IV all-wheel drive system, initially using the Torsen T-1 50:50 dynamic centre differential, and from 2007 for the 2008 model year, utilising the Torsen T-3 asymmetric dynamic centre differential, with a "default" torque distribution of 40 percent to the front axle and 60 percent to the rear. If the road conditions change, the purely mechanical differential responds without any delay; it can divert up to 85 percent of power to the rear wheels, and as much as 65 percent to the front wheels.
The S8's top speed is electronically limited to 250 km/h (155 mph). Audi's factory performance claims indicate a 0 to 100 km/h (0 to 62 mph) time of 5.1 seconds whilst consuming 98 RON unleaded petrol. The S8 has similar performance to Audi's own top-of-the-line A8 L W12, though the W12 is more expensive, has more torque, and built on a longer wheelbase. Compared to the A8 L W12, the S8 has sportier mechanical features such as a firmer suspension, larger wheels, and ceramic brakes. The shorter wheelbase and 10-cylinder engine save weight for better handling, but at 5.4 seconds from 0–60 mph (97 km/h), the S8 trails the W12 in acceleration.
The S8, like the A8, utilises a multi-link suspension layout front and rear, with pressurised air springs. However, for the S8, the effective spring and damper rates are noticeably firmer, along with re-engineered suspension mounts.
The brake system consists of radially ventilated discs all round. The discs are clamped with gloss-black painted dual-piston calipers up front, and a single-piston sliding caliper at the rear, coupled to an electro-mechanical parking brake. A Bosch ESP 5.7 (later upgraded to ESP 8.0) electronic stability control, with ABS, brake assist, and EBD complete the brake system. Optional "Audi ceramic" carbon fibre-reinforced silicon carbide (C/SiC) composite front and rear brakes are available, which use radially vented, and floating SGL Carbon discs, with anthracite grey painted twelve-piston fixed Brembo monobloc alloy calipers. Standard alloy wheels consist of 20-inch "S design" alloy wheels.
A8L Centennial Limited Edition (2009)
The A8L Centennial Limited Edition (奧迪A8L百年限量版) is a limited (800 units total) version of the A8L 3.0 FSI with multitronic and the A8L 6.0 W12 quattro for the Chinese market, commemorating Audi's 100th anniversary. It includes a horizontal chrome-plated front grille (from the A8L 6.0 W12 quattro), "V6" metal logo at the upper left of the air-inlet grille (A8L 3.0 FSI), LED daytime running lights, 19-inch 12-spoke polished aluminium alloy wheels, heated steering wheel in grey leather with beige stitching, Bang & Olufsen advanced audio system, Alcantara equipment bag, Assam ash red veneer, floor mat with aluminium trim and a metal 'Audi exclusive' commemorative logo at inner door trims.
The vehicles went on sale on 18 October 2009 as 2010 model year vehicles.
Engine variants
In North America, only the 4.2 V8, 5.2 V10, and 6.0 W12 petrol engines were available. The 4.0 TDI was discontinued when the 4.2 TDI was introduced.
D4 (Typ 4H, 2009)
Initial release
The third-generation Audi A8 (Typ 4H) is based on the Volkswagen Group MLB platform, but retains the Audi Space Frame aluminium construction of the previous A8, making it the lightest all-wheel drive car in the full-size luxury segment, while also giving it best-in-class fuel economy. The quattro all-wheel drive system splits torque with a default bias of 40 percent front and 60 percent rear.
The vehicle was unveiled at Design Miami 2009 on 30 November 2009, followed by the 2010 North American International Auto Show.
Early models include A8 4.2 FSI quattro (372PS), A8 3.0 TDI quattro (250PS), A8 4.2 TDI quattro (350PS). A8 3.0 TDI (204PS) was added later.
Initial internal combustion engine options comprise 4.2-litre Fuel Stratified Injection (FSI) petrol and Turbocharged Direct Injection (TDI) diesel V8s, with 273 kW (366 hp) and 258 kW (346 hp) respectively. A 3.0-litre V6 TDI with either 184 kW (247 hp) or 150 kW (201 hp) will be available later. A 6.3-litre W12 engine only for the long wheelbase model was made available in 2010, and compared to its predecessor it has a larger displacement and direct fuel injection. All engines are mated to the new eight-speed ZF 8HP automatic transmission. Although other Audi vehicles such as the 2010 Audi S4 and 2011 Audi A7 had switched from the 4.2 L V8 to the 3.0 L supercharged V6, the Audi A8 retained a higher-output 4.2 L V8 as the base engine for the 2011 and 2012 model years in North America.
Taiwan models went on sale on 11 November 2010. Early models include 3.0 TFSI quattro (290PS).
New features
Changes include:
Full LED headlamps with Automatic high beam switching or Audi adaptive light (Xenon) with variable headlight range control.
Enhanced MMI Multi Media Interface with touchpad & handwriting recognition for the phone and navigation system, using Nvidia Tegra system on a chip for very high processing speed.
Optional 1,400 watt Bang & Olufsen sound system.
Driver assistance systems networked using FlexRay technology.
Hard disk drive GPS navigation with 3D computer graphics with Google Earth.
Navigation system coordinates input to the adaptive headlights, transmission, adaptive cruise control and electronic stability control.
Infrared Night Vision Assistant with pedestrian recognition.
Broadband internet with UMTS 3G and WLAN-Hotspot.
First production Audi with a Collision avoidance system: Pre sense (similar to Mercedes-Benz Pre-Safe). The full version of the system (Pre Sense Plus) works in four phases. In the first phase, the system provides warning of an impending accident, while the hazard warning lights are activated, the side windows and sunroof are closed and the front seat belts are tensioned. In the second phase, the warning is followed by light braking, strong enough to win the driver's attention. The third phase initiates autonomous partial braking at a rate of 3 m/s2 (9.8 ft/s2). The fourth phase decelerates the car at 5 m/s2 (16.4 ft/s2) followed by automatic deceleration at full braking power, roughly half a second before projected impact. A second system, called (Pre Sense Rear), is designed to reduce the consequences of rear-end collisions. The sunroof and windows are closed and seat belts are prepared for impact. The optional memory seats are moved forward to protect the car's occupants. The system uses sensor fusion with twin radar and a mono camera, and was introduced in 2010.
A8 L (2010)
The vehicle was unveiled at Auto China 2010, followed by the 2011 Taipei Motor Show (A8 L W12 quattro).
German models went on sale in the fall of 2010. Early models include a 3.0 TFSI quattro (290PS), a 4.2 FSI quattro (372PS), a W12 6.3 FSI quattro (500PS), a 3.0 TDI quattro (250PS) and a 4.2 TDI quattro (350PS).
Taiwan models went on sale on 11 November 2010. Early models include a 3.0 TFSI quattro (290PS) and a 4.2 FSI quattro (372PS). The A8L W12 quattro was added in 2011. The A8L 4.0 TFSI quattro was added in 2012.
Chinese models went on sale in 2011. Early models include an A8L 3.0 TFSI low quattro (289PS), and an A8L 3.0 TFSI high quattro (333PS).
A8 hybrid concept (2010)
The concept vehicle includes a 2.0 TFSI engine rated at 211 PS (155 kW; 208 hp) and 350 N⋅m (258.15 lbf⋅ft) of torque at 1,500–4,200 rpm, a disc-shaped electric motor rated at 45 PS (33 kW; 44 hp) and 211 N⋅m (155.63 lbf⋅ft) of torque, lithium-ion battery, luggage space of 400 litres (14.13 cubic feet), 21-inch wheels with 265/35 tires, Prism Silver body colour with Spectra Flair accent colour, 'hybrid' lettering on both front fender and illuminated doorsteps with 'hybrid' insignia.
The vehicle was unveiled in 2010 at the Geneva Motor Show.
A8 L long-term evolution broadband prototype (2011)
It is a version of the A8 L demonstrating 4G long-term evolution (LTE) broadband technology. Developed in collaboration with Alcatel-Lucent, the car's mobile broadband connection is a fourth generation (‘4G’) technology with data transfer speeds of up to 100 Mbit/s.
During the 2011 Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, Rupert Stadler, chairman of the Board of Management of AUDI AG, announced that LTE technology would be used in cars by early 2011. The A8 L prototype was unveiled weeks later.
A8 L Security (2011–2017)
The A8 L Security is an armoured version of the A8 L with class VR 7 ballistic protection standard (tested as per BRV 2009 guidelines), resistance to explosions against a military hand grenade (tested as per ERV 2010 guidelines), with certain areas of the armouring complies with the criteria for class VR 9 and VR 10, a core safety cell made from hot-formed armoured steel, aramid fabric, ceramics, special alloyed aluminium and multilayer glass; overlapping protective materials at the joints, aluminum side sills with solid steel sections, aluminum alloy armored floor, side windows, windshield and rear window made of special glass with a polycarbonate coating; optional electromechanical window openers, closing assist feature comes standard for the doors, communication box in the luggage compartment (light ceramic doors, aluminum frame), optional battery and the fuel tank protection, two-way communication system with a speaker in the single-frame grille and microphones for the cabin and exterior, an emergency exit system with pyrotechnical separating screws in the hinges, fire extinguisher system, emergency fresh-air system with two oxygen cartridges, a smoke extractor for the passenger compartment, an LED signaling system for convoy travel, flashing lights, a siren, a preparation for professional mobile radio systems, a flag holder, a permanently installed telephone, an accident data recorder, an additional rearview camera and a heated windshield plus partially heated side windows, four-zone climate control system with an ionizer to freshen the air, electric rear blinds, the sonorous Bose surround sound system and a TV tuner. In the rear are two individual seats with power adjustment, front comfort seats with heating and optional massage and ventilation functions, standard full-leather package, optional relaxation seat (adjustable right-hand rear seat with a power-adjustable footrest, heating and massage), optional center console with large storage compartments and rear seat entertainment system with two 10.2-inch displays, optional folding table, optional refrigerator, optional parking heater, Bluetooth car phone online, integrated UMTS module, optional separate telephone handsets, 19-inch forged wheels featuring semipolished two-tone finishing, 255/720 tires with a high load index of 117, synthetic rings on the rims, and an optional full-size spare tire.
The first model includes a W12 engine rated at 368 kW; 493 hp (500 PS) and 625 N⋅m (461 lbf⋅ft) of torque. Deliveries began in late summer 2011. An additional engine model with improved fuel efficiency went on sale in 2012.
The vehicle was unveiled at the 2011 Geneva Motor Show.
Deliveries began in late summer 2011.
A8 hybrid (2012)
The production version includes an electric motor rated at 40 kW; 53 hp (54 PS) and 210 N⋅m (155 lbf⋅ft) of torque, 1.25 kWh lithium-ion battery, 18-inch 10-spoke alloy wheels in turbine blades design (optional 19-inch), hybrid badges, metallic paint finish (optional Arctic Silver body colour), three-zone automatic air conditioning, LED headlights, and a BOSE sound system. Pure electric mode is available for either a top speed of 100 km/h (62 mph) or for up to 3 km (2 mi) at a constant speed of 60 km/h (37 mph). It went on sale in 2012.
The vehicle was unveiled at the 2011 Frankfurt Motor Show.
A8 L W12 Audi exclusive concept
It is a limited (50 units) version of the A8 L W12 with seats upholstered in Cognac-colored leather by Poltrona Frau, inlays made from the wood olive ash natural, light gray-brown veneer, sill trims with "Audi exclusive concept" lettering, deep-pile carpeting.
The vehicle was unveiled at the 2011 Frankfurt Motor Show.
A8 L hybrid
The long wheelbase version of the A8 hybrid was unveiled in 2010 at the Beijing Auto Show.
S8 4.0 TFSI quattro (2012)
The D4 series Audi S8 4.0 TFSI quattro went on sale in 2012. The D4 S8 was based on the A8 platform, considered in America to be the "short wheel base" comparative to the A8L. Like the previous iteration, the D4 S8 costs less than the A8 L W12.
The S8 can accelerate from 0 to 100 km/h (0 to 62 mph) in 4.2 seconds. It is powered by a 4.0-litre TFSI biturbo V8 engine with 382 kW (512 hp). The engine utilises cylinder deactivation so it can run as a V4 for better fuel economy. The S8's engine is shared with the Bentley Continental GT, while a detuned variant of the engine makes 420 hp (313 kW; 426 PS) which is found in the 2013 Audi S6, Audi S7, and Audi A8. Direct competitors include the BMW Alpina B7 and Mercedes-Benz S63 AMG, which also have biturbo V8 engines.
The vehicle was unveiled at the 2011 Frankfurt Auto Show, and went on sale in spring 2012.
Taiwan models went on sale in 2013.
The S8 was discontinued in the United States of America, to be replaced by the S8 Plus for the latest iteration of this generation before the facelift in 2018. In other parts of the world customers had the choice between the two variants.
S8 Plus 4.0 TFSI quattro (2016)
Based on the same chassis and underpinnings as the D4 S8, the D4 S8 Plus became the sole option for ordering the S8-variant of the Audi A8 line in the US, in the 2016 and 2017 model years. The S8 Plus was dialed up to 605 hp (451 kW) out of the same powerplant as the previous S8, by remapping the turbo boost and fuel delivery of the engine. Additionally, the Carbon Ceramic braking system is standard on the S8 Plus in some markets. The vast majority of options on the S8 Plus were identical to the previous S8; however, it had darkened tail lights standard, and the option for adding carbon fiber styling elements such as the mirror caps, rear lip spoiler, rear diffuser, and front lip. Different markets had different standard packages combining elements of the external carbon package, the dynamic package and the interior design package. A highly optioned build of the S8 Plus would outprice the nominally higher-end A8 L W12 whose production ceased after the 2018 model year. Unlike the regular S8 which was built by Audi on the regular assembly line alongside other A8 variants, the S8 Plus was built by Audi Sport (formerly Quattro GmbH) and has a VIN that starts with WUA to identify it.
Engines
Marketing
As part of the Audi A8 launch in Taiwan, Audi built an Audi pavilion in Xin-Yi district, with Tom Dixon invited for the launch event. Yu-Cheng Chou and Chun-Ten Lin's art works were displayed with A8. The Audi A8 3.0 TFSI quattro (290PS) was used in Transporter: The Series. Audi S8 was used in Avengers: Age of Ultron, alongside Spider-Man: Homecoming.
2013 model year update
Early German A8 models include 3.0 TFSI quattro (290PS), 4.0 TFSI quattro (420PS), 3.0 TDI (204PS), 3.0 TDI quattro (250PS), 3.0 TDI clean diesel quattro (250PS), 4.2 TDI quattro (350PS), A8 L W12 quattro (500PS), A8 hybrid 2.0 TFSI. Early German A8 L Security models include 4.0 TFSI quattro, W12 6.3 FSI quattro.
The updated A8 uses LED headlight technology, with automatic high beam lighting. Osram supplies the LEDs, while Hella supplies the headlamp itself.
Early US models include the A8(L) 3.0 TFSI quattro (333PS), the A8(L) 4.0 TFSI quattro, the S8 4.0 TFSI quattro and the A8 L W12 6.3 FSI quattro. The A8 3.0 TFSI quattro and A8 4.0 TFSI quattro replaced the A8 4.2 FSI quattro. The A8 3.0 TDI clean diesel quattro (240PS) was unveiled at the 2012 L.A. Auto Show, and was set to go on sale in Spring 2013 as a 2014 model year vehicle. The A8 L 3.0 TDI clean diesel quattro (240PS) was set to go on sale in Spring 2013 on sale as a 2014 model year vehicle.
Chinese models include the A8L 30 FSI (204PS), the A8L 40 hybrid, the A8L 45 TFSI quattro (290PS), the A8L 55 TFSI quattro (333PS), the A8L W12 FSI quattro and the S8 4.0 TFSI quattro.
Engines
The A8 L 2.0 TFSI hybrid is sold as an A8L 40 hybrid in China.
The A8 L 3.0 TFSI quattro (290PS) is sold as an A8L 45 TFSI quattro in China.
Transmission
All models include an eight-speed Tiptronic transmission.
Recalls
2013–2014 Audi A8 and S8 vehicles equipped with a standard sunroof, manufactured between 12 March 2013, and 15 July 2013, were recalled due to possible shattering of sunroof glass panel.
Marketing
As part of the 2013 S8 4.0 TFSI quattro launch in the US, a TV commercial called 'Suspect' was produced in association with Venables Bell & Partners, USA, Furlined, The Whitehouse, 740 Sound Design & Mix, Lime Studios; starring Abigail Spencer. The ad takes cues from quintessential heist films with the S8 taking center stage against a mysterious and suspenseful bank robbery scene. The spot closes with the tagline "Heighten Every Moment." The commercial was premiered during the 2012 NFL season kick-off game on 5 September 2012. The "Suspect" commercial featuring the Audi S8 also aired on CBS and NBC, and select cable networks, including: Food, FX, National Geographic, ESPN, USA, CNN, and AMC. A 30-second version would also be viewable on CNN.com, Reuters.com, Wired.com, Yahoo! and more.
2014 model year facelift
A8, S8, A8 Audi exclusive concept, A8 hybrid (2013)
Changes include:
First worldwide series production car with digitally controlled, full-LED glare-free adaptive highbeam: Matrix LED. The high-beam comprises 25 individual light-emitting diodes per unit that can be switched on and off or dimmed individually depending on the situation. This enables the headlight system to react extremely precisely to other vehicles while always brightly illuminating the road. Additional features of the new headlights are the intelligent cornering light, new-look daytime running lights and dynamic turn signals. The lighting system in the A8 uses predictive route data from the navigation system to adjust the distribution of light in response to the current driving situation. In combination with the optional Navigation plus with MMI touch, the system recognizes route data contained in the navigation system, such as curves and road classifications.
Cornering light: Using predictive route data supplied by the MMI navigation plus, the focus of the Matrix LED beam is shifted towards the bend even before the driver turns the steering wheel.
Night Vision Assistant can now recognize larger animals in addition to pedestrians. Pedestrian Marker Lights work together with the optional night vision assistant. As soon as a pedestrian is detected in a critical range in front of the vehicle, individual LEDs flash briefly three times in succession to alert that person, who is then clearly visible to the driver.
Head-up display
Standard electromechanical power steering (optional dynamic steering varies its ratio with the car's speed)
Active lane assist, which makes slight steering adjustments when necessary
Park assist system with 360° display
Side assist blind spot monitor coupled with expanded version of the standard pre sense basic safety system
Active noise cancellation (ANC) for A8 L W12 quattro, cylinder on demand with six-cylinder mode.
Additional noise damping
Other changes: altered trunk layout with optional power trunk closing assist, flatter rear LED lights joined by a continuous chrome strip, redesigned bumper houses two rhomboid tailpipes (except S8), available wheel sizes up to 21 inches with 275/35-series tires, optional sport differential (standard on S8 and A8 4.2 TDI clean diesel quattro)
The A8 Audi Exclusive Concept is a limited (50 units) version of the A8 L W12 quattro with interior leather upholstery from Italian furniture manufacturer Poltrona Frau in the color Agatha cognac, inlays are made of fine grain olive ash natural silver brown, Tierra Del Fuego body colour. Production was set to begin at the quattro GmbH facility in Neckarsulm starting in March 2014.
The Audi S8 includes a four-cylinder mode with ANC, two elliptical dual tailpipes, dynamic steering, sport differential, adaptive air suspension sport with an S-specific setup, 20-inch wheels, S8 emblems on front brake calipers, optional Audi design selection black/Vermont brown with Carbon twill copper inlays.
The Audi A8 hybrid includes a custom Audi luggage set for the trunk.
The vehicles were unveiled at the 2013 Frankfurt Motor Show, followed by the 2014 Detroit Auto Show and the 2014 Toronto Auto Show.
German models arrived at German Audi dealerships in November 2013. Early A8 models include 3.0 TFSI quattro (310PS), 4.0 TFSI quattro (435PS), 3.0 TDI quattro clean diesel (258PS), 4.2 TDI clean diesel quattro (385PS), A8 L W12 quattro (500PS), A8 hybrid 2.0 TFSI (211/245PS), S8 4.0 TFSI quattro (520PS).
US models went on sale as 2015 model year vehicles. Early models included A8 3.0 (L) TFSI quattro (310PS), A8 (L) 4.0 TFSI quattro (435PS), A8 L 3.0 TDI quattro clean diesel (258PS), A8 L W12 quattro (500PS), S8 4.0 TFSI quattro (520PS).
Engines are the same in Canada as the US but PS ratings are higher due to less emission control devices needed.
A8 L Security (2014)
Available in V8 4.0 TFSI or W12 FSI engines, the A8 L Security is an armoured version of the A8 L with VR9 ballistic protection standard in accordance with the BRV 2009 guideline, with VR10 in certain areas, and explosives resistance tested in accordance with the ERV 2010 guideline (Explosion Resistant Vehicles). The occupant cell is made of heat-formed armor steel, aramid fabric, ceramic, a special aluminum alloy, and multi-laminated glass, with protective materials which overlap at transitions. The aluminum side sills incorporate ballistic-proof profiles. The armor-plated vehicle floor is made from a special aluminum alloy for explosive weapons resistance. Door windows, windshield and rear window incorporate special glass with a splinter-inhibiting polycarbonate layer on the inside, with doorstop function and optional electromechanical side windows. Other optional security equipment include emergency exit system with pyrotechnic fracture bolts in the hinges to detach the door from the body, fire extinguisher system with two tanks and nozzles that spray to wheel arches, onto the underbody, the tank, and into the engine compartment; emergency fresh-air system with two pressurized cartridges housed in the protected zone, security start with remote radio signal engine start, selective unlocking of doors, a smoke extractor for the interior, an LED signal system for convoy driving, pennant holder, flashing lights, a siren, a preparation for or installation of analog and digital radio networks for security authorities and organizations, a built-in phone, an accident data recorder, an additional rear camera, a heated windshield including partly heated side windows. Other features included LED (V8 4.0 TFSI) or Matrix LED (W12 FSI) headlights, quattro permanent all-wheel drive, armor-plated (ceramic doors, aluminum frame) communications box in the trunk with a supplementary battery, optional battery and fuel tank protection, intercom system with a loudspeaker in the Singleframe grille and microphones for the interior and the vehicle's surroundings, two electrically adjustable individual seats in the rear, front comfort seats with optional with massage and ventilation functions (optional front-passenger relaxation seat with electric-control footrest, ventilation and massage function), an optional continuous center console with large storage compartments is also available, rear seat entertainment with two 10.2-inch displays, optional folding table, a cool box and auxiliary heating; new Unicum leather interior upholstery, forged 19-inch wheels, 255/70 tires with high load index 117, polymer rings on the rims, direct-measurement tire pressure monitoring system, optional spare wheel, 4-zone automatic air conditioning with an ionizer, electric rear blinds, Bose surround sound system, a TV tuner, and parking system plus with surround view camera.
Deliveries began in the third quarter of 2014.
S8 plus (2015)
Based on the short wheelbase S8, the S8 plus includes increased engine power to 605 PS (445 kW; 597 bhp) and 700 N⋅m (516.3 lb⋅ft) of torque, with overboost to 750 N⋅m (553.2 lb⋅ft) of torque, as well as unique 21-inch wheels with 275/35R21 tires in Germany.
The vehicle was unveiled at the 2015 Los Angeles Auto Show. The German model went on sale in end of November 2015 for a base price of 145,200 euros. The US model went on sale in December 2015 as 2016 model year vehicle for US$114,900.
Engines
Transmission
All models include an eight-speed Tiptronic transmission.
Production
The A8's aluminum chassis was built at the Neckarsulm plant.
Marketing
As an April Fools' Day joke on 1 April 2015, Audi Japan announced a special edition A8 5.5 with a rice cooker on the rear center console. The 5.5 designation is a play on the Japanese words "go" (five) and "han" (half); when combined, they become "gohan" (悟飯), which is the Japanese word for "rice". Audi S8 was used in The Transporter Refueled. Audi S8 was used in Avengers: Age of Ultron, alongside Spider-Man: Homecoming. A blockbuster style commercial film Suspect was published for the Audi S8 in 2012, which features an unnamed male model as driver.
D5 (Typ 4N, 2017)
A8 and A8 L
The design of the A8 and A8 L was based on the Audi Prologue concept. The new generation, code-named D5, was unveiled at the Audi Summit in Barcelona on 11 July 2017 and presented at the 2017 Frankfurt Motor Show. The standard wheelbase A8 went on sale in November 2017, and the long wheelbase A8 L was launched in 2018.
Traffic Jam Pilot is a new feature, consisting of Level 3 autonomous driving, that allows the car to travel in the heavy traffic on the highway up to 60 km/h (37 mph) without any assistance from the driver. Due to the complicated legal regulations, Audi cancelled the launch of this feature for the United States market in 2019.
As part of the deal between Marvel Studios and Audi, the fourth generation of A8 first premiered in the "Driver's Test" commercial that premiered on 19 June 2017, as a tie-in to Spider-Man: Homecoming movie. In the commercial, Peter Parker (Tom Holland) takes the car, a prototype belonging to Tony Stark, for a test-drive alongside his driving instructor played by J. B. Smoove. The car also had a small product placement appearance in the actual movie itself.
S8 (2020)
The higher performance version, S8, was introduced in the late 2019 for the 2020 model year. Unlike previous generation S8s which were only built upon the short-wheelbase A8 variant, the D5 generation will be available in both short-wheelbase and long-wheelbase, with North America having only the long-wheelbase S8 (i.e. S8 L). The S8 has a higher output version of the petrol V8 fitted to the A8 and A8L 60 TFSI quattro.
2022 model year facelift
On 29 October 2021, Audi revealed the facelifted A8 ahead of its Chinese introduction at the Guangzhou Auto Show and later next year in Europe. The facelift also included the revival of the Horch (A8L Horch Founder Edition) brand to compete against other ultra-luxury sedans in China with European sales a future possibility. A facelift Horch was presented in February 2024.
The D5 is scheduled to last longer than previous generations and will not be replaced at least until 2026.
Engines and transmission
At launch, the A8 had two engine options: one 3-litre petrol V6 (55 TFSI quattro) and 3-litre diesel V6 (50 TDI quattro). For 2019, the engine range was expanded to include the petrol and diesel V8 engines (60 TFSI quattro in 2020 and 60 TDI quattro in 2019, respectively). The plug-in hybrid version (PHEV) with a 3-litre petrol V6 and electric motor (60 TFSI e quattro) was launched in 2019. No hybrid system is fitted to the diesel engines. The petrol V8 engines fitted to the 60 TFSI quattro and S8 TFSI quattro have 48-volt MHEV systems that use the electric motor as a starter and for power assistance. No W12 engine has been announced yet as of January 2021.
All A8, A8 L, and the S8 feature the quattro all-wheel-drive system and an 8-speed Tiptronic automatic transmission.
Production and sales
References
External links
Audi pages: A8 Archived 2014-02-09 at the Wayback Machine, Audi A8 L Security Archived 2013-10-05 at the Wayback Machine, A8 hybrid (concept) Archived 2012-07-03 at the Wayback Machine


--- Audi Q5 ---
The Audi Q5 is a series of compact luxury crossover SUVs produced by the German luxury car manufacturer Audi from 2008. The original first-generation (Typ 8R) model was the third member of the B8 family to be released after the Audi A5 and fourth-generation A4, all being based on the Audi MLB platform. The second generation Q5 (Typ 80A) debuted in 2018 and shares the Audi MLB Evo platform with the corresponding B9 versions of the A4 and A5.
First generation (Typ 8R; 2008)
Audi Cross Cabriolet quattro concept (2007)
A concept vehicle for the then upcoming Q5, this was a 2-door convertible with a 3.0 TDI engine rated at 240 PS (177 kW; 237 hp) and 500 N⋅m (369 lbf⋅ft) torque, quattro permanent four wheel drive, 8-speed automatic transmission, Copper Sunset body, LED headlights, 21-inch wheels with 265/35R21 tyres, seats with White Stone leather upholstery, MMI, 505W Bang & Olufsen sound system and internet radio, CDC (continuous damping control) shock absorbers, electric ride height adjustment (40 mm), 380/356 mm front/rear ceramic brake discs with 6-piston monobloc aluminium front, and floating rear callipers, Audi Drive Select. The vehicle was unveiled at the 2007 Los Angeles Auto Show.
Initial version
Q5 (2008)
The vehicle was unveiled at the 2008 Beijing Auto Show, and later at the 2008 Los Angeles Auto Show.
Early models include the 2.0 TFSI quattro (211PS), 2.0 TDI quattro (170PS), 3.0 TDI quattro.
Initial vehicle models for US, Canada & Brazil include the 3.2 FSI.
The Q5 commenced shipments in October 2008 for Europe, and in the first quarter of 2009 for North America.
The US model went on sale in March 2009 as a 2009 model year vehicle. Early models include 3.2 FSI quattro and the 2.0 TFSI quattro (211PS) was added in 2011 model year.
Indian models went on sale in June 2009, and were initially built by Audi's Ingolstadt facility, but are built at its Aurangabad, Maharashtra, India plant. Launch models include 3.0 TDI, 2.0 TFSI (211 PS).
Middle East models went on sale in 2009 Q2. Launch models include 2.0 TFSI (211 PS), 3.2 FSI.
Japanese models include 2.0 TFSI quattro (211 PS), 3.2 FSI quattro.
Audi Q5 custom concept (2009)
It is a concept vehicle that includes an enhanced engine, 7-speed S tronic transmission, Quattro all wheel drive. The 3.0 TFSI V6 engine was rated 408 PS (300 kW; 402 hp) at 6,000–7,000 rpm and 500 N⋅m (369 lb⋅ft) at 3,000–5,500 rpm. Other features include ceramic brakes, active sound exhaust system, 90 millimetre wider track, 60 millimetre lower ride height, 21-inch Daytona Gray colour wheels of 7 twin-spoke design, modified air intake, cooling water strut brace in engine compartment, stainless steel-plated pedals, S line sport seats, panorama roof system, "Wörthersee 09" adhesive film, textile floor mats with "Wörthersee 09" print application, Audi drive select vehicle dynamics system, parking aid with rearview camera, voice control, Audi lane assist (lane departure warning), headlight range control with cornering lights.
The vehicle was unveiled at the Wörthersee Tour 2009.
Audi Q5 FCEV (2009)
The Audi Q5 FCEV (2009) is a fuel cell based concept car that was demonstrated on 19 October 2009 at CEP Berlin. It sports an 85 kW PEMFC, a 22 kW lithium-ion battery and a 230 Nm asynchronous motor.
Audi Q5 hybrid
Audi has originally reported that it would offer the Q5 hybrid as launch model, but it was later reported that Audi suspended the plan because of unsatisfactory crash test results for the nickel metal hydride batteries. In 2009, Audi announced it would resume the Q5 hybrid development. It included a 266V, 1.3kWh, battery pack. The Q5 has an all-electric range of about 3 km (2 mi) and maximum all-electric speed of 100 km/h (62 mph).
The production version would be on sale in 2012 for the Japanese market. The release in the U.S. market was scheduled for late 2011.
Engines
180 PS 2.0 TFSI and 143 PS 2.0 TDI engines were introduced in Europe beginning in 2009.
Transmissions
German models include standard 7-speed S tronic transmission for all V6 models. 8-speed Tiptronic is an option for Q5 2.0 TFSI quattro (211 PS).
US and Canadian Q5 3.2 FSI models include 6-speed Tiptronic as standard transmission. US and Canadian Q5 2.0 TFSI models include 8-speed Tiptronic as standard transmission.
Japanese models include standard 7-speed S tronic transmission for all models.
Equipment
Harman/Becker Automotive Systems produced Audi's new updated Multi Media Interface (MMI) technology for Q5. The new system includes navigation, communication, and wide-screen entertainment. A three-dimensional orientation view with true-to-scale terrain and photo realistic depictions of key landmarks will also be generated. Included features in this new system are USB storage media (iPod or MP3), satellite radio, and an integral four-band GSM mobile/cell phone (SIM card ready) with Bluetooth connectivity.
S line package includes 20-inch S line wheels, headlight washers, sport steering wheels with shift paddles, brushed aluminium inlays, S line aluminium door sills, and a black headliner. The Offroad exterior package includes front and rear underbody protection panels, along with flared fender and door sill protection.
Carrying and towing capabilities
A sensor informs the ESP system if a roof rack has been mounted, which will cause the Audi Q5's centre of gravity to be shifted higher in keeping with the roof load of up to 100 kg (220 lb). If a roof rack is present, the ESP engages earlier in the handling limit. Without a roof load, the driver is free to tap the full dynamic potential of the Audi Q5.
The Audi Q5 is capable of towing up to 2.0 tonnes; the standard hill descent control system makes it safe to navigate down steep inclines by regulating the preselected speed when driving at under 30 km/h (19 mph). The Q5 is also fitted with an advanced Trailer Stability Program designed to combat any unwanted snaking when towing a large trailer or caravan.
Production
The new vehicle was expected to be built in Audi's home town of Ingolstadt. An investment of €300 million in production tooling and expansion was expected.
In September 2016, Audi has opened a factory with a capacity of 150,000 Q5 in San José Chiapa (Mexico).
2012 facelift
Main changes include a redesigned set of front and rear light configuration, and a new set of engines that increase both output and efficiency. Most interior user controls have narrow chrome trim. Ergonomics changes include 4-button MMI navigation plus system, additional skip function for volume dial. Large fabric-upholstered surfaces are standard on the door trim panels; inlay options include three wood veneers and one aluminium version.
The vehicles went on sale in summer 2012. Early models include 2.0 TFSI hybrid quattro, 2.0 TFSI quattro (225PS), 3.0 TFSI quattro (272PS), 2.0 TDI (143PS), 2.0 TDI quattro (177PS), 3.0 TDI quattro (245PS).
In Germany, 2.0 TFSI quattro (180PS), 2.0 TDI (150PS), 2.0 TDI quattro (150PS) were added in 2013, with 2.0 TDI (150PS) replacing 2.0 TDI (143PS).
Pre-facelift styling
Post-facelift styling
SQ5 TDI (2013–)
The SQ5 performance crossover SUV is the first Audi S model vehicle to feature a diesel engine. The primary power plant is a 3.0 L (2,967 cc), twin turbocharged V6 engine coupled to an 8-speed Tiptronic transmission, developing 313 PS at 3,900–4,500 rpm, and 650 N⋅m (479 lbf⋅ft) of torque at 1,450–2,800 rpm. It also features Audi's signature quattro permanent all-wheel drive system with torque vectoring transfer. Sport suspension lowers the vehicle body by 30 mm (1.18 in) and 20-inch 5 parallel-spoke wheels with 255/45 tires are fitted as standard, with the option of upgrading to 21-inch wheels. Other features of the SQ5 are black front brake callipers with Audi 'S' badges, an optional Audi drive select system, a platinum-grey single-frame grille with galvanized double bars, two SQ5 unique body colours (Estoril Blue or Panther Black), optional lunar silver headlining, Pearl Nappa leather/Alcantara power-adjustable sport seats with optional leather upholstery in a choice of four colours, brushed aluminium inlays with optional Carbon Atlas, Piano finish or Aluminium/Beaufort wood trim panels.
The SQ5 TDI accelerates from 0–62 mph (100 km/h) in 5.1 secs, and is electronically limited to 155 mph. This is comparable to rival range-topping performance SUVs with diesel engines, such as the Porsche Cayenne S Diesel (0–60 mph (97 km/h): 5.7 s) and BMW X5 M50d (0–60 mph (97 km/h): 5.4 s), and also to high-performance petrol-powered SUVs, such as the Mercedes-Benz ML63 AMG (0–60 mph (97 km/h): 4.8 s), Porsche Cayenne Turbo S (0–60 mph (97 km/h): 4.1 s). These listed rivals are all larger and heavier, falling into the mid-size SUV class, and, as such, command significantly higher asking prices. A more realistic comparison may be made with the BMW X3 xDrive35d, which delivers slightly better economy (46.3 mpg to the SQ5's 41.5), though slightly lower performance (0–62 mph (100 km/h): 5.8 s, max speed: 149 mph (240 km/h)).
The SQ5 went on sale in the first quarter of 2013.
SQ5 TDI Audi exclusive concept (2013–)
It is a limited (50 units) version of the Audi SQ5 TDI with Aral Blue crystal effect body colour, black Fine Nappa leather upholstery with contrasting stitching in snow white, black sport seats covered in Fine Nappa leather, woven leather in the centre section of the seats, snow white Alcantara headlining, sunroof blind, inlays and applications shimmer.
The vehicle was unveiled in the 2012 Paris Motor Show, and went on sale in the first quarter of 2013.
In 2015 Audi introduced a 'plus' tdi model, with 340 PS (250 kW) and 700 N⋅m (516 lbf⋅ft), quilted nappa leather seats, external black details and 21-inch wheels as standard equipment.
SQ5 3.0 TFSI quattro (2013–)
It is a petrol version of the SQ5 with 3.0 TFSI engine rated 354 PS (260 kW; 349 hp) at 6,000–6,500 rpm and 470 N⋅m (346.65 lbf⋅ft) at 4,000–4,500 rpm, eight-speed tiptronic transmission, quattro permanent all-wheel drive with torque vectoring, 20-inch wheels with 255/45-series tires (optional 21-inch wheels), platinum grey radiator grille with horizontal double bars in aluminium look, choice of 2 crystal-effect body colours (Estoril Blue, Panther Black), instruments feature grey dials and white numerals, pedals and shift paddles in shiny aluminium-look finish, black interior with headlining optionally available in Moon Silver, power-adjustable sport seats upholstered in Pearl Nappa leather and Alcantara (option four different colours of leather), standard brushed aluminium inlays (optional Carbon Atlas, Piano finish or layered aluminium and wood in Beaufort black). The vehicle was unveiled in 2013 Detroit Auto Show.
The vehicle was designed for United States, Canada, Russia, China, Japan, Singapore, South Korea, South Africa, Mexico, Brazil, Argentina, Chile and Ukraine markets.
US model was set to arrive at U.S. dealerships in the third quarter of 2013 as 2014 model year vehicle.
Engines
All engines include start-stop system. 3.0 TFSI quattro (272PS) replaced 3.2 FSI quattro.
Transmissions
Safety
NHTSA tested a 2016 Q5. Euro NCAP tested a 2009 Audi Q5, 5-door SUV with front airbags, side airbags, seatbelt pretensioners and load limiters as standard and scored it accordingly:
The Insurance Institute for Highway Safety also crash-tested the Q5, and presented the following results (ratings from 'poor' to 'good'):
Emissions concerns
On the 19 August 2020, tagesschau.de reported that "turning the steering wheel changes exhaust emissions" significantly under test conditions.
The first generation 3.2L FSI engine is extremely prone to carbon buildup in the secondary air injection system, resulting in an extremely costly and necessary repair—which often rears its head following the warranty period.
Second generation (Typ FY; 2016)
The second generation Q5 (Typ FY) was revealed at the 2016 Paris Motor Show. Production began at the Audi Mexico plant on 30 September 2016, for the 2017 model year.
Long wheelbase version (Q5L), (2018–2025)
A long wheelbase version was unveiled at the Beijing Auto Show, with 88 mm (3.5 in) added to the car, resulting in 23 percent more legroom.
Markets
The second generation of the Q5 will be the first generation of the Q5 to be sold in Bangladesh.
The Q5 was launched in Thailand in August 2017, where a sole S-line powered by a 2.0 TFSI engine (45 TFSI) and 2.0 TDI engine (40 TDI) with a Quattro all wheel drive system is available.
The Q5 was launched in Malaysia in March 2019, where a sole Sport trim line powered by a 2.0 TFSI engine with a Quattro all wheel drive system is available.
In August 2021, the facelifted Q5 was launched in Malaysia, with the sports-oriented S-Line trim package. It gets a 2.0 TFSI engine with mild-hybrid tech, Quattro AWD and the S Tronic dual-clutch transmission. Not long after, the Q5 Sportback also made its local debut in Malaysia.
North America
The second generation Q5 was launched in North America in 2018. Production shifted from Germany to the new Audi México, S.A. de C.V. factory in San José Chiapa, Puebla, México. The Q5 was launched with a 2.0 TFSI petrol engine. Power output was 252 hp (188 kW; 255 PS) and 273 lb⋅ft (370 N⋅m). Audi's Quattro all-wheel drive system is standard, however it uses ‘Quattro with Ultra Technology’. According to Audi, Ultra technology improves efficiency by decoupling the driveshaft to the rear wheels when all-wheel drive is not needed. Essentially the vehicle becomes front wheel drive when cruising, or in other driving situations where the vehicle's computers determine all-wheel traction is not needed. Audi claims the system is able to re-engage power to the rear wheels within milliseconds of the system detecting or predicting slip or the driver accelerating aggressively.
Unlike in the previous 8R generation Q5, US vehicles are only offered with the 2.0T TFSI I-4 engine. The 2.0T ‘45 TFSI’ model offers acceleration similar to the previous generation's 3.0 TFSI Supercharged V6 (face-lifted Q5 8R, 2013–2017) while using less fuel and reduced emissions. No TDI version will be offered in North America due to the fallout from the diesel emissions scandal. Bucking an industry-wide trend of moving away from dual clutch transmissions for the latest generation of conventional torque converter automatics, Audi actually replaced the previous generation's ZF 8HP 8-speed automatic transmission for their own 7-speed S-Tronic dual clutch gearbox.
The SQ5 is offered as a performance variant of the Q5. In North American spec, it uses a 3.0L DOHC direct-injected Miller Cycle-capable 90° V6 with a single twin-scroll turbocharger. This engine, dubbed EA839, is a substantially reworked version of the previous-generation supercharged V6 (EA837) that was used in the first generation Q5 3.0T and SQ5. Power output for the turbocharged engines remains at 264 kW (354 hp), however torque increases to 500 N⋅m (369 lb⋅ft) at only 1370 rpm. Unlike the lesser powered Q5 ‘45 TFSI’ 2.0T, Audi retained ZF's 8HP transmission for the SQ5, and it also utilizes the full-time rear-biased quattro AWD system.  Utilizing the Torsen CSM self-locking center differential, default power distribution is 40% front/60% rear.  The center differential can instantaneously divert up to 70% of available engine power to the front wheels or up to 85% to the rear wheels.  This permanent version of the Quattro AWD system is also available with the torque-vectoring rear "sport differential".
For the 2019 model year, heated front seats, rear electric child locks, 7-inch infotainment screen, and roof crossbars became standard equipment. For the Premium Plus trim, rear USB charge ports and wireless charging became standard while for Prestige trims, park assist was made standard. The Convenience Package was expanded to include the Audi side assist and Audi pre sense rear safety systems. In addition, Audi introduced a "black optic" package for the Q5, featuring black exterior trim and unique wheels. The SQ5 also became available in the Premium trim.
In 2020, Audi introduced the Q5 TFSI e plug-in hybrid variant. It featured a 14.1 kWh lithium-ion battery, giving an EPA estimated 20 miles (32 km) of range. A heat pump was implemented into the climate control system, providing for greater heating efficiency. The plug-in variant also received the Turbo Blue and Daytona Gray colors, available only on the plug-in variant and SQ5 models. It produced 362 hp (270 kW; 367 PS) and 369 lb⋅ft (500 N⋅m) of torque and had a 0–60 mph (0–97 km/h) time of 5.0 seconds, nearly a second faster than the standard Q5. For the 2022 model year, the battery size was increased to 17.9 kWh, increasing the EPA range to 23 miles (37 km).
2021 facelift
The 2021 Model Year includes the Generation 3 infotainment technologies. This includes a digital marketplace in the myAudi app to add Audi Connect plans and SiriusXM with 360L. Exterior facelift revisions include updates to the grille, bumper side air intakes, side sill, and rear trim. In addition, District Green and Ultra Blue were new paint colors available on the PHEV and SQ5 variants.
The 2021 Q5 was announced at the end of June 2020 and entered production in July with expected first deliveries at the end of 2020. In January 2021, Audi expanded the Q5 lineup by introducing a Sportback variant of the Q5 and SQ5.
The Q5 was launched in India on 23 November 2021 offering two variants - Premium Plus and Technology.
Safety
Euro NCAP
The 2022 Q5 was awarded the "Top Safety Pick+" by the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety.
Third generation (Type GU; 2025)
Audi officially unveiled the third generation of the Q5 SUV on 2 September 2024. The coupé SUV model, marketed as the Sportback, was unveiled on 26 November 2024. Unusually, it was launched in April 2025 as the “All-New” 2025 Audi Q5 alongside the previous generation 2025 model year in North America.
The third-generation Audi Q5 represents the first major redesign since 2018 and is built on Volkswagen Group's new Premium Platform Combustion (PPC) architecture shared with the redesigned Audi A5. The exterior styling features a raked silhouette inspired by the larger Q7, with a specific visual ratio between the greenhouse and body creating a clear SUV shoulder with a clean beltline running from front to rear. New lighting signatures can be customized to eight different patterns for both front and rear, with available IQ.Light LED matrix headlamps providing illumination range up to 500 meters. The redesign marks a departure from the previous generation by eliminating fake exhaust finishers in favor of functional exhaust tips, with dual rectangular outlets on the Q5 and quad tips on the SQ5.
The base Q5 is powered by a 2.0-liter turbocharged inline-four engine producing 268 horsepower and 295 lb-ft of torque, representing a 7-horsepower increase over the previous 45 TFSI powertrain. All Q5 variants feature Audi's new 48-volt Mild Hybrid Plus system producing 18 kW and 230 N⋅m, capable of operating on pure electric power at low speeds. Power is transmitted through a seven-speed dual-clutch automatic transmission with standard all-wheel drive, achieving 0-60 mph acceleration in 5.8 seconds. The performance-oriented SQ5 features a 3.0-liter turbocharged V6 engine generating 362 horsepower and 406 lb-ft of torque, an increase from the previous model's 349 horsepower. Maximum towing capacity for both models is rated at 4,400 pounds, with cargo space of 1,473 liters for the Q5 and 1,388 liters for the SQ5 Sportback.
The interior features an 11.9-inch digital instrument cluster and a 14.5-inch touchscreen for the infotainment system, with an optional 10.9-inch passenger display available on Prestige trim levels. All displays utilize bright panels with quick response times and deep black contrast, though the instrument cluster offers reduced customization compared to the previous generation. Climate controls have been relocated to a dedicated section at the bottom of the center touchscreen, though physical buttons remain absent despite criticism from reviewers. An available Bang & Olufsen audio system features 16 speakers with noise canceling technology, while Dynamic Interaction Light spans the width of the cabin displaying welcome, locking, and turn signal animations. The Q5 Prestige and all SQ5 trim levels come standard with air suspension featuring active adaptive dampers, an uncommon feature in the luxury compact SUV segment.
Plug-in hybrid e-hybrid variants were revealed in June 2025, featuring the same 2.0-liter turbocharged four-cylinder engine paired with an electric motor and a 25.9 kWh battery pack (20.7 kWh usable). Two power levels are offered: 295 horsepower and 362 horsepower, with the higher output matching the SQ5's power rating. The battery capacity represents a 45 percent increase over the previous generation, providing approximately 62 miles of electric range on the WLTP cycle, up from 38 miles. Base pricing for the 2026 Q5 starts at approximately $54,000, positioning it competitively against rivals such as the BMW X3 and Mercedes-Benz GLC.
The Q5L was released on 23 April 2025 by FAW-Audi at Auto Shanghai 2025, with preorders opening on 22 December 2025 and went on sale on 15 January 2026. has a height of 1,660 mm (65 in), length of 4,842 mm (190.6 in), and wheelbase of 2,945 mm (115.9 in).
Powertrains
Safety
Production and sales
See also
List of fuel cell vehicles
Audi Q5 e-tron
Audi Q4 e-tron
References
Bibliography
External links
Media related to Audi Q5 at Wikimedia Commons


--- Audi Q7 ---
The Audi Q7 is a full-size luxury crossover SUV made by the German manufacturer Audi, unveiled in September 2005 at the Frankfurt Motor Show. Production of this seven-seater SUV began in November 2005 at the Volkswagen Bratislava Plant in Bratislava, Slovakia.
The Q7 was the first SUV sold by Audi and went on sale in 2006. Later, Audi's second SUV, the Q5, was unveiled as a 2009 model. Audi has since unveiled a third SUV model, the Q3, which went on sale in the third quarter of 2011, and a fourth SUV model, the Q2, which went on sale in November 2016. The Q7 shares a Volkswagen Group MLB platform and chassis with the Bentley Bentayga, Lamborghini Urus, Porsche Cayenne and the Volkswagen Touareg.
The Q7 is the second largest vehicle from Audi, being surpassed by the Q6 since 2022. While the Q7 has been the flagship SUV in Audi's product portfolio, a top-of-the-line model with a lower roof, called the Audi Q8, was released in 2018.
It was one of the vehicles involved in the Volkswagen emissions scandal, with the company ordered to buy back some of the affected cars manufactured between 2009 and 2012. The Q7 is also subject to hundreds of NTSB complaints with many relating to potentially catastrophic engine failure issues, and a class-action lawsuit related to squealing brakes.
First generation (Typ 4L; 2005)
The Q7 (internally designated Typ 4L) utilizes a modified version of the Volkswagen Group PL71 platform.  Previewed by the Audi Pikes Peak quattro concept car, the Q7 is designed more for on-road use, and was not meant for serious off-road use where a transfer case is needed. In an off-road test through the Australian outback it fared well for a "soft roader".
Development began in 2002 under the code AU 716, primarily focused on the Pikes Peak Concept. Design work was frozen for the Concept in July 2002, for presentation at the North American International Auto Show in January 2003. Following the introduction of the concept, full-scale development began on Typ 4L of the PL71 platform.
The production design was frozen in late 2003, for a late 2005 start of production. Prototypes went into testing in 2004, with development concluding in the first half of 2005. It introduced the world's only series production passenger car V12 TDI diesel engine.
Giles Smith, writing for the Guardian described the first-generation Q7 as "the SUV that dwarfs everybody else's SUV." Writing for the Observer, Martin Love described the interior as "a master class in luxury" whilst calling the Q7 "vast, whale-like, bloated ... it's the Lurch of the hard shoulder, a gas-guzzling Zeppelin" and saying "clearly those who buy SUVs couldn't give a monkey's about petrol consumption, but responsible makers such as Audi need to protect these people from themselves." In the Sunday Times, Gavin Conway called the Q7 "vast and intimidating" and said "the whole cabin feels expensively made out of high-quality materials" before noting the lack of space in the third row of seats compared to similar cars from other manufacturers.
Although lacking a low-range transfer case, it has a Quattro permanent four-wheel drive system with a Torsen self-locking central differential which provides an asymmetric 42/58 front-to-rear torque split. A self-levelling air suspension with Continuous Damping Control, called adaptive air suspension, which helps in off-road situations is also available.
As part of the Volkswagen emissions scandal, the car featured software that allowed it to cheat at emissions tests, giving the impression that it emitted far-less harmful nitrogen oxide pollution that it actually does.
Powertrain
0–100 km/h (62 mph) performance for Q7 3.6 VR6 FSI is 8.5 s, 4.2 V8 FSI is 7.4 s and for 5.9 V12 TDI is 5.5 s.
Safety
Despite its multiple airbags and safety electronics, such as Electronic Stability Programme (ESP), the Q7 scored four stars out of five () in the Euro NCAP crash test for adult occupant protection. According to Audi, this was caused by a design error, and has since been fixed in cars manufactured after the test which should allegedly lead to five stars. Official tests to prove this remain to be done as of March 2009. The Guardian noted that "because of its size and wadded insulation, the Q7 provides its driver with a spectacularly complete illusion of safety" before noting that SUVs are more likely to get into crashes, especially rollovers.
In the United States, the Q7 received five out of five stars () from the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) safety test for both front and side impacts. The Insurance Institute for Highway Safety awarded the Q7 its Top Safety Pick 2009, with Good ratings in all 14 measured categories of the front and side impact test.
The 2015 Q7 has a rollover risk of 18.5%.
North American models
It was first released as 2007 model, with Q7 4.2 quattro available at launch.
Q7 hybrid (2005)
The Q7 hybrid is a concept vehicle using the engine from the 4.2 FSI with an electric motor to provide 200 N⋅m (148 lb⋅ft) extra torque, and nickel-metal hydride battery. It has 0–100 km/h (62 mph) acceleration time of 6.8 seconds. The vehicle weighs 2,410 kg (5,313 lb), 140 kg (309 lb) heavier than the petrol counterpart.
The vehicle was unveiled at the 2005 Frankfurt Motor Show.
Audi reportedly was going to introduce a hybrid version of the Q7 sometime in the future. However, the low US dollar caused Audi to drop the plans for the US market, but stated limited quantities would be available for the commercial market. Audi's research and development chief, Michael Dick, later announced Q7 hybrid would be produced in limited numbers for test purposes only and that development work would focus on a more advanced lithium-ion battery-based hybrid system for the Q5.
Q7 3.0 TDI clean diesel (2010)
The Q7 3.0 TDI clean diesel is a version of the 3.0 V6 TDI with selective catalytic reduction. The engine was later used in the next generation of the Q7 for the European market. The 3.0-litre TDI S line can accelerate from 0–60 mph (0–97 km/h) in 8.4 seconds and has a top speed of 134 mph (216 km/h).
US models of the 2009 Audi Q7 TDI Premium went on sale in 2009–15 with a base MSRP of $50,900 (excluding a destination charge of $825, taxes, title or dealer charges).
Q7 4.2 TDI (2007–2009)
The vehicle was unveiled at the 2007 Geneva Motor Show.
The production version went on sale in the middle of 2007.
Q7 V12 TDI (2008–2012)
The V12 TDI engine was "based" on the diesel technology from Audi R10 TDI race car, though both engines are completely unrelated: the bore / stroke / angle of the blocks are different and they do not share a single significant component. The only twelve-cylinder diesel engine used in any passenger car, it was rated at 500 PS (368 kW; 493 hp) and 1,000 N⋅m (738 lb⋅ft) of torque. This gives the vehicle a 0–100 km/h (0–62 mph) acceleration time of 5.5 seconds. The Q7 V12 TDI is, according to Audi, the best handling Q7 due to a revised suspension, tires and brakes. Audi claims the Q7 V12 TDI can handle a lateral acceleration of over 0.9 g on a 300-foot (91 m) skid-pad.
The concept vehicle originally appeared at the 2006 Paris Motor Show.
Audi had announced V12 diesel version for the US market using diesel emission treatment technology jointly developed with Volkswagen and Mercedes-Benz under the label "BlueTec". Audi cancelled the plan to federalize the Q7 V12 TDI for the US market due in part to the 2008 financial crisis.
This V12 version is no longer available for the model year 2013 in anticipation of the cosmetic and mechanical update of Q7 for 2014. The auto listing websites, mobile.de and autoscout24.de, have shown the 2012 model year availability of V12 version.
Audi Q7 coastline (2008)
The Audi Q7 coastline is a concept version of the Q7 V12 TDI that features an Inuit white interior with wood decoration. The design theme was inspired by luxury yachts. The vehicle was unveiled at the 2008 Geneva Motor Show.
Facelift (2010–2015)
The vehicle was unveiled at the 2009 Pebble Beach Concours d'Elegance.
Exterior changes include new front and rear lights which better incorporate LED lighting with optional LED turn signals and daytime running lights, new wheel designs, chrome accents, four new paint colours, and updated body styling in the front and rear.
A redesigned interior includes a new instrument cluster, new leather seating, ambient door lighting, new interior colour choices, new trim, and the third generation MMI control system.
Q7 3.0 TDI clean diesel quattro (2009–2015)
It is a version of 3.0 TDI with selective catalytic reduction. CO2 emission was reduced to 234 g/km with Euro 6 certification, but the vehicle is 50 kg (110 lb) heavier.
Per the Popular Mechanics Oct 2009 issue, at 72.5 mph with an RPM of 2,200–2,500 (the sweet spot of the top 6th gear), the car achieved a 29.6 MPG of diesel. The 8-speed transmission, available 2011 and later, was 11–14% more fuel-efficient than the previous 6-speed transmission (available since 2009–2010 model year) in U.S. models.
Q7 2011
A brand new facelift brought optional LED headlights, an 8-speed transmission, start/stop fuel-saving technology, CO2 rating reduced to 195 g/km, and a wraparound tailgate design. Also, more flat and metallic colours became available and 21-inch titanium-effect wheels became an optional extra. Certain models achieved upwards of 37 MPG IMP. The 3.6 L V6 and 4.2 L V8 petrol engines, both of which are naturally aspirated, have been replaced by 3.0 L supercharged V6 petrol engines. One of the supercharged engines puts out 272 hp (203 kW) and 295 lb⋅ft (400 N⋅m) of torque. The other engine, also found in the Audi S4 and Audi S5 Cabrio, puts out 333 hp (248 kW) and 325 lb⋅ft (441 N⋅m) of torque is used in the S-line Prestige Q7. Both engines have the same fuel economy.
Q7 2012
Audi added their new Audi Connect to the MMI system, which adds internet-driven POI search, via user input or the voice control system, as well as access to online services delivering local fuel prices, news, weather and other information. Audi Connect also offers in-car WiFi connectivity for up to 8 devices.
2012 was the last model year for the V12 version.
US models
The vehicles were introduced in 2006 as 2007 models. Available models include 3.6 FSI Quattro and 4.2 FSI Quattro.
Changes include standard LED taillights with available LED turn signals and daytime running lights and SIRIUS traffic system.
The production version went on sale in July 2006.
For 2011, the 3.6 FSI and 4.2 FSI engines were replaced by two 3.0 L TFSI supercharged engines. The base version develops 272 hp (203 kW) (280 hp (209 kW) for 2012) and 295 lb⋅ft (400 N⋅m) of torque, while the S-Line has 333 hp (248 kW) and 325 lb⋅ft (441 N⋅m) of torque.
The V12 Diesel engine is not available in the United States.
Powertrain
Transmission
All models include 6-speed Tiptronic automatic transmission as standard. A 6-speed manual transmission was offered only in Europe on the first generation Q7 with the 3.6-litre engine. From 2010 (2011 model year in the U.S.), the Aisin–Toyota 8-speed automatic transmission 8-speed automatic transmission is standard.
Second generation (Typ 4M; 2015)
The second generation Audi Q7 was unveiled in January 2015 at the North American International Auto Show in Detroit. The diesel- and petrol-powered versions were released for retail sales in 2015, followed shortly by diesel-powered plug-in hybrid variant, which is sold in Europe, but not in Canada.
Regardless of engine, all Q7's come with a ZF 8HP 8-speed automatic transmission and a Quattro Permanent all-wheel drive system with a self-locking center differential and a default 40:60 front-to-rear torque split. Depending on available traction, up to 70% of available power can be diverted to the front axle, or up to 85% to the rear axle, without ESP intervention.
In 2016, the BBC noted the Q7 as one of several models on the market which were too large to fit in a standard parking space.
Q7 e-tron
The plug-in hybrid, called the Q7 e-tron TDI Quattro, is powered by a 3.0-litre TDI V6 turbo-diesel engine mated with an electric motor-generator placed in the 8-speed automatic gearbox to provide a maximum output power of 190 kW (255 hp) and a maximum torque of 600 N⋅m (443 lbf⋅ft) four-wheel drive. An electronically controlled clutch can disconnect the V6 engine from the rest of the powertrain. The 94 kW (126 hp) electric motor is powered by a 17.3 kWh lithium-ion battery capable of delivering an all-electric range of 54 to 56 km (34 to 35 mi). The Q7 e-tron produces CO2 emissions between 50 and 48 g/km, and has a fuel consumption of 1.8 to 1.9 l/100 km (160 to 150 mpg‑imp; 130 to 120 mpg‑US) under the New European Driving Cycle (NEDC). The Irish Independent found these official fuel economy claims to be completely unrealistic, although they noted that the 40 to 50 miles per imperial gallon (7.1 to 5.6 L/100 km; 33 to 42 mpg‑US) they achieved in their tests to be "still exceptional for a large SUV like this". The Q7 e-tron accelerates from zero to 100 km/h (62 mph) in 6.2 seconds in hybrid mode, and 0–60 km/h (0–37 mph) in 6.5 seconds in all-electric mode. Its top speed in hybrid mode is 230 km/h (143 mph) and 135 km/h (84 mph) in electric mode.
Audi announced the Q7 e-tron TFSI at the 2015 Shanghai Auto Show, developed specially for Asian markets (China, South Korea, Singapore and Japan). Its 2.0 TFSI and electric motor deliver 270 kW (362 hp) and 700 N⋅m (516 lb⋅ft) of system torque – enough to accelerate from 0 to 100 km/h (62 mph) in 5.9 seconds and for a top speed of 220 km/h (137 mph). The standard consumption of 2.5 litres of fuel (94.1 US mpg) corresponds to CO2 emissions of less than 60 grams per kilometer (96.6 g/mi). All-electric range will be up to 53 km (33 mi). Audi's marketing of the model has led to accusations of greenwashing.
Due to its large size and poor environmental record, Environmental Action Germany nominated the Q7 plug-in hybrid for their Goldener Geier (Golden Vulture) 2020 award.
Markets
The second generation of the Q7 is the first of the Q7 to be sold in Bangladesh.
The Q7 2.0 TFSI (1984 cc, 252 PS (249 hp; 185 kW)) is also available in the Russia, United States, Canada, India, the Middle East, and Southeast Asia.
For Marvel Studios' Captain America: Civil War Audi debuted a commercial for the SQ7 directed by the Russo brothers featuring unreleased scenes from the car chase feature in the film as well as providing several SQ7 and other vehicles for the film.
2020 facelift
The Q7 was facelifted for the 2020 model year, introducing styling tweaks such as a redesigned grille, front and rear bumpers, new side sills, chrome trim for the tailgate and revised exhaust tips. It comes with two-tone paint as standard, which highlights the front splitter, side skirts, wheel arches and rear diffuser in anthracite, a range of mild-hybrid powertrains and refined chassis. Inside, Audi installed a new infotainment system with dual touchscreens. The dashboard and centre console were also updated to accommodate the new system.
LED headlights are included as standard, Matrix LEDs or HD Matrix LEDs and Audi Laser Light are offered as additional cost options. The HD Matrix LEDs and Audi Laser Light combine automatic controlled high beam with small laser module in each unit to double the range of the Q7's full beam.
Air suspension is included as standard (only on Prestige and Technik trims in US and Canada, respectively). Audi has also expanded the Q7's options list to include a new active roll-stabilisation system (only available on SQ7 Prestige and SQ7 in US and Canada, respectively). It provides active anti-roll bars, controlled by a 48-volt electric motor that automatically adjust to reflect the driving style and road conditions.
Three mild-hybrid 3.0-litre V6 powertrains are available, with the choice of two diesels and one petrol. The entry-level 45 TDI diesel produces 228 bhp (170 kW; 231 PS) and 500 N⋅m (369 lb⋅ft) of torque with a claimed 0–62 mph (0–100 km/h) time of 7.1 seconds and a top speed of 142 mph (229 km/h). Mid-range 50 TDI models produce 282 bhp (210 kW; 286 PS) and 600 N⋅m (443 lb⋅ft) of torque, delivering a 0–62 mph (0–100 km/h) of 6.3 seconds and a top speed of 150 mph (241 km/h). The 55 TFSI petrol model comes with 335 bhp (250 kW; 340 PS) and 500 N⋅m (369 lb⋅ft) of torque, with a claimed 5.6 seconds and a 155 mph (249 km/h) electronically limited top speed. An eco-focused plug-in hybrid 55 TFSI e version will be introduced a few months after initial sales.
Audi also offers a performance-focused SQ7 version, powered by a 429BHP (that can be upgraded to max 650 hp) 4.0-litre V8 turbodiesel with 900 N⋅m (664 lb⋅ft) of torque; it has a claimed 0–62 mph (0–100 km/h) time of 4.8 seconds and a limited top speed of 155 mph (249 km/h). The US model will use a V8 engine with the same displacement (shared with the US-market SQ8), albeit fueled by petrol and producing 500 bhp (370 kW; 510 PS) and 770 N⋅m (568 lb⋅ft) of torque; it went on sale in the second quarter of 2020.
Sales in the UK started from September 2019.
The SQ7 offers a TFSI variant with a 4.0 twin-turbocharged V8 petrol engine delivers 500 bhp (370 kW; 510 PS) and 770 N⋅m (568 lb⋅ft) of torque. It accelerates from 0–62 mph (0–100 km/h) within 4.3 seconds and on to a maximum speed of 155 mph (249 km/h).
2025 facelift
Audi announced a second facelift in January 2024 for the 2025 model year, introducing further enhancement to the front and rear headlight design, whilst offering features such as HD Matrix LED headlights featuring a Laser high-beam and different lighting signatures, while the OLED rear lights feature their own new design.
Powertrains
Safety
Euro NCAP
Third generation (2026)
Set to debut in early 2026 along with the SQ7, spy shots of the third-generation Q7 from multiple sources have been shared online. Split headlights similar to that of third-generation Q3 models can be seen, as well as a split taillight setup shared with other recent Audi models. Additionally, small wing-like door handles seem to be used instead of traditional door handles, similar to the Ford Mustang Mach-E.
References
Juergen Zoellter. "Preview: Audi Q7". Car and Driver (March 2006): 55.
External links
Official website (United Kingdom)


--- Audi R8 ---
The Audi R8 is a mid-engine, 2-seater sports car, which uses Audi's trademark quattro permanent all-wheel drive system. It was introduced by the German car manufacturer Audi AG in 2006. Production ended in the first quarter of 2024.
The car is exclusively designed, developed, and manufactured by Audi AG's private subsidiary company manufacturing high performance automotive parts, Audi Sport GmbH (formerly quattro GmbH), and was inspired by the Lamborghini Gallardo albeit the second generation is built using the Huracán platform. The fundamental construction of the R8 is based on the Audi Space Frame, and uses an aluminium monocoque which is built using space frame principles. The car is built by Audi Sport GmbH in a newly renovated factory at Audi's 'aluminium site' at Neckarsulm in Germany. At the time it was introduced in 2006, the R8 became the first production car with full-LED headlamps.
First generation (2006; Type 42)
The Audi R8, based on the Audi Le Mans quattro concept car (designed by Frank Lamberty and Julian Hoenig) first appeared at the 2003 International Geneva Motor Show and the 2003 Frankfurt International Motor Show. The R8 road car was officially launched at the Paris Auto Show on 30 September 2006. There was some confusion with the name, which the car shares with the 24 Hours of Le Mans winning R8 Le Mans Prototype (LMP). Initial models included the R8 4.2 FSI coupé (with a V8 engine) and R8 5.2 FSI coupé (with a V10 engine). Convertible models, called the Spyder by the manufacturer, were introduced in 2008, followed by the high-performance GT model introduced in 2011. The Motorsport variants of the R8 were also subsequently introduced from 2008 onwards. An all-electric version called the e-Tron started development but would only reach production stage when the second generation model would be introduced.
6-time 24 Hours of Le Mans winner Jacky Ickx described the R8 as "the best handling road car today".
The car received a facelift in 2012 and a new model called the V10 Plus was now added to the range. Production of the Type 42 ended in August 2015.
Second generation (2015; Type 4S)
The second generation of the R8 (model code: Type 4S) was unveiled at the 2015 Geneva Motor Show and is based on the Modular Sports System platform shared with the Lamborghini Huracán. The development of the Type 4S commenced in late 2013 and was completed in late 2014 (2015 model year in Europe, 2017 model year in the US). Initial models included the all-electric e-Tron and the V10 5.2 FSI along with the V10 plus. Unlike its predecessor, there was no manual transmission available and the entry-level V8 trim was also dropped. In 2016, the convertible (Spyder) variant was added to the line up which was initially available in the base V10 trim. In mid-2017, the high performance V10 plus Spyder was added to the range. A rear-wheel-drive model called the R8 RWS was introduced.
In 2017, Audi introduced the R8 V10 plus "Exclusive Edition," a limited production run of 25 units exclusively for the United States market. This model was the first Audi production vehicle in the United States to feature laser headlight technology. The laser high-beam module, which requires FDA approval for use in the U.S. due to its laser emission, supplements the standard full LED headlights and is activated at speeds above 40 mph (64 km/h) to significantly increase visibility range. The Exclusive Edition is distinguished by a Quantum Gray exterior paint finish, a Titanium Black-optic exterior package, and a Solar Orange accent stripe on the carbon fiber sideblades. The interior features a "Black/Signal Orange" leather package, a diamond-tufted Alcantara headliner, and illuminated carbon matte door sills inscribed with "one of 25."
In 2018 (2020 model year in the US), the R8 received a mid-cycle refresh with mechanical and exterior changes. The newer and more aggressive design language carried over from famous Audi models of the past and its appearance is slightly more angular up front. The refreshed model had substantial performance improvements over its predecessor. The base R8 gets a power boost from 532 hp to 562 hp, while the V10 Plus was renamed V10 Performance Quattro and the engine saw a power increase by 10 hp (7 kW), now up to 612 hp. 2023 R8 GT is last R8 with 620 hp limited to 333 units.
The Audi R8 e-tron (2015) was an all-electric version of the second-generation R8. Unlike the earlier 2010 prototype based on the first-generation R8, it actually entered production, but only on a small scale, with less than 100 units sold. It featured a 92-kWh battery.
Production, available markets and sales
To produce the R8 at Audi Sport GmbH, 70 workers fit 5,000 different parts by hand. The factory at Neckarsulm, redeveloped at a cost of €28 million, usually produces between eight and fifteen cars a day, up to a maximum daily output of 29 cars. Ninety-five lasers inspect the entire car in five seconds to ensure that over 220 measurements are within 0.1 millimetres of the programmed plans.
In Asia, the R8 is available in India, Israel, Japan, Taiwan, Bahrain, Kuwait, South Korea, Philippines, Thailand, Pakistan, Hong Kong and Vietnam, and has been available in China, United Arab Emirates, Singapore, Malaysia, and Indonesia since 2008.
European statistics include sales from the following countries:  Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Great Britain, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland.
Marketing
Marvel Cinematic Universe
The R8 became the personal vehicle for Tony Stark (played by Robert Downey Jr.) throughout six films in the Marvel Cinematic Universe. Type 42 models were used in the Iron Man Trilogy with a V8 in Iron Man, a V10 Spyder in Iron Man 2, and an e-tron prototype in Iron Man 3. Type 4S models appeared in later Marvel Studios movies with 2016 V10 Plus models in Avengers: Age of Ultron and Captain America: Civil War and a Spyder model in Spider-Man: Homecoming.
See also
Lamborghini Huracán (built on same platform)
Audi Le Mans quattro
Audi S and RS models
Lamborghini Gallardo (built on same platform)
References
External links
Official Audi R8 website Archived 2019-03-24 at the Wayback Machine


--- Audi TT ---
The Audi TT is a sports car manufactured and marketed by Audi from 1998 to 2023 across three generations. Its bodystyles included a coupé with a 2+2 seating arrangement and a two-seater roadster. For each of its three generations, the TT has been based on consecutive generations of Volkswagen's "Group A" platforms, starting with its "PQ34" fourth generation. The TT shares powertrain and suspension layouts with its platform mates, including the Audi A3, like a transversely mounted front-engine, powering front-wheel drive or four-wheel drive, and fully independent suspension using MacPherson struts in front.
The TT's first two generations were assembled by Audi's Hungarian subsidiary, one of the world's largest engine manufacturing plants, using bodyshells manufactured and painted at Audi's Ingolstadt plant and parts made entirely by the Hungarian factory for the third generation. In total,  662,762 Audi TTs were built, with the last manufactured in November 2023.
Design
Styling of the Audi TT began in the spring of 1994 at the Volkswagen Group Design Center in California. The TT was first shown as a concept car at the 1995 Frankfurt Motor Show. The design is credited to J Mays and Freeman Thomas, with Hartmut Warkuss, Peter Schreyer, Martin Smith and Romulus Rost contributing to the interior design.
A laser beam welding technique, which enabled seamless design features on the first-generation TT, delayed its introduction. Audi did not offer an automatic transmission option for the TT until 2003, when it offered a dual clutch six-speed Direct-Shift Gearbox (DSG), with the United Kingdom TT variants becoming the world's first market for a dual clutch transmission configured for a right-hand drive vehicle, although the outright world first for a road car equipped with a dual clutch transmission was claimed earlier by a Volkswagen Group platform-mate, the left hand drive Volkswagen Golf Mk4 R32.
The Audi TT takes its name from the Isle of Man TT (Tourist Trophy) motorcycle race — where NSU, Audi's predecessor, had enjoyed considerable motor racing success.  NSU marque began competing at the Isle of Man TT in 1907 with the UK manager Martin Geiger finishing in fifth position in the single-cylinder race. The 1938 Isle of Man Lightweight TT race was won by Ewald Kluge with a 250 cc supercharged DKW motor-cycle and the DKW and NSU companies later merged into the company now known as Audi. The Audi TT also follows the NSU 1000TT, 1200TT and TTS cars of the 1960s in taking their names from the race.
The TT nameplate has also been attributed to the phrase "Technology & Tradition".
TT Mk1 (Type 8N, 1998–2006)
The production model (internal designation Type 8N) was launched as a coupé in September 1998, followed by a roadster in August 1999. It is based on the Volkswagen Group A4 (PQ34) platform as used for the Volkswagen Golf Mk4, the original Audi A3, the Škoda Octavia, and others. The styling differed little from the concept, except for slightly reprofiled bumpers, and the addition of rear quarterlight windows behind the doors. Factory production commenced in October 1998.
Early TTs were cited in a series of fatalities from accidents involving speeds over 112 mph (180 km/h), abrupt lane changes or sharp turns.  Both the coupé and roadster variants were recalled in late 1999/early 2000, to improve  the car's handling predictability at very high speeds. Audi's Electronic Stability Programme (ESP) or Anti Slip Regulation (ASR) were added, as well as a rear spoiler, along with modifications to the suspension system. All changes were incorporated into subsequent production.
The Audi TT was nominated for the North American Car of the Year award for 2000 and made Car and Driver magazine's Ten Best list for 2000 and 2001. By 2003, Audi revised the TT, with a number of small styling and practicality improvements.
Production of the first generation (Type 8N) ended in June 2006.
Powertrain
Mechanically, the TT shares an identical powertrain layout with its related Volkswagen Group-mates. The TT uses a transversely mounted internal combustion engine, with either front-wheel drive or 'quattro four-wheel drive' available as an option. It was first available with a 1.8-litre inline four-cylinder 20-valve turbocharged engine in two states of DIN-rated power outputs; 180 PS (132 kW; 178 hp) and 225 PS (165 kW; 222 hp). The engines share the same fundamental design, but the 225 PS version features a larger K04 turbocharger (180 PS version came with a smaller K03), an additional intercooler on the left side (complementing the existing right-side intercooler), larger 20mm wrist-pins, a dual tailpipe exhaust, intake manifold with inlet on driver's side, and a few other internals – designed to accommodate the increase in turbo boost, from roughly 10 pounds per square inch (0.7 bar) peak, to 15 pounds per square inch (1.0 bar). Haldex Traction enabled four-wheel drive, branded "Quattro", was optional on the 180 engine and standard on the more powerful 225 version.
The original four-cylinder engine range was complemented with a 3,189 cc (3.2 L; 194.6 cu in) VR6 engine rated at 250 PS (247 bhp; 184 kW) and 320 N⋅m (236 lb⋅ft) of torque in early 2003, which came as standard with the quattro four-wheel-drive system. In July 2003, a new six-speed dual clutch transmission – dubbed the Direct-Shift Gearbox (DSG), which improves acceleration through much-reduced shift times, was offered, along with a stiffer suspension.
Aerodynamics
According to Audi Head of Design Marc Lichte, the curved outline and rounded bodywork of the Mk1 TT's design was inspired by Bauhaus. This simplified curved shape was unusual at the time. The drag coefficient of the original TT is 0.35, which is similar to its competitors such as the BMW Z4 and the Mazda MX-5.
However, the TT was involved in a number of high-speed accidents which were attributed to aerodynamic instability at high speeds. To solve these issues, Audi added modified control arms and firmer shock absorbers on both the front and rear suspension as well as a rear spoiler.
TT quattro Sport
In 2005, Audi released the Coupé-only limited edition. Just 1,165 were produced. 800 with steering wheel on the right side, 365 with steering wheel on the left side. (900 sold in the UK, not the 1,000 originally planned) Audi TT quattro Sport (known as the Audi TT Club Sport in Europe) or TT QS. Built by AUDI AG's high-performance specialist subsidiary quattro GmbH, it had increased power from its 1.8-litre turbocharged engine – rising to 240 PS (177 kW; 237 hp) and 320 N⋅m (236 lbf⋅ft) of torque – and a reduction in weight of 75 kg (165 lb) to 1,390 kg (3,064 lb), which allowed for a 0–62 mph (0–100 km/h) time of 5.9 seconds, and an electronically limited top speed of 155 mph (249 km/h).
This weight reduction was achieved by removing the spare wheel, rear harmonic damper, rear parcel shelf and rear seats, and the standard fitment air conditioning. The main battery was also relocated to the rear of the vehicle in order to maintain weight distribution as much as possible. Lightweight fixed-back Recaro bucket seats graced the interior. Distinguishable from other TT Coupés by its two-tone paint scheme (Phantom Black pearl painted roof, pillars and mirror housings, in combination with either Avus Silver, Phantom Black, Mauritius Blue or Misano Red body colour) and unique 18" 15-spoke cast aluminium alloy wheels, plus the same body kit as fitted to the TT 3.2 V6, the TT quattro Sport also featured black exhaust tailpipes and uprated suspension settings and new wheels, 1⁄2 in (13 mm) wider at the rear for improved handling. The brochure stated V6-spec brakes were to be fitted, however models delivered in the UK came with the standard 225 spec brake callipers which were red-painted.
8N engines
The 8N powertrain options consist of the following engines and drivelines:
Lawsuits
In June 2007, a class action lawsuit was filed against Volkswagen Group of America, alleging the timing belts for model year 1999–2003 Audi and Volkswagen vehicles equipped with a 1.8-litre turbocharged engine failed prematurely. The complaint alleged that the timing belts failed prior to the owner's manual's service interval. The parties reached a class-wide settlement, with preliminary approval of the settlement granted in May 2008.
In May 2008, a class action suit reached a nationwide settlement regarding allegedly defective instrument clusters on 2000–2004, and 2005 model year Audi TTs.  Owners were entitled to submit claims for repairs, replacement and/or cash reimbursement for out-of-pocket expenses and received a two-year instrument cluster warranty extension.
Safety
2.7T Quattro gmbH Concept
For the 30th anniversary Quattro gmbH unveiled an Imola Yellow TT that sported a 2.7 L Bi-Turbo V6 engine from a B5 Audi RS4 that produced 280 kW (381 PS; 375 hp) and 440 N⋅m (325 lb⋅ft) at 2,500 rpm which was manufactured in 2001. This was accomplished by using a B5 RS4 donor car, which included engine, transmission, rear differential, axles, brakes, and wheels from a B5 Avant. Using the RS4 drivetrain, Audi had the ability to utilize a Torsen based 6-speed Quattro manual transmission in a car that is normally using a transverse engine layout and Haldex based all wheel drive system.
TT Mk2 (Type 8J, 2006–2014)
In August 2004, Audi announced that the next generation TT would be manufactured using aluminium, and would go into production in 2007. A preview of the second-generation TT was provided in the form of the Audi Shooting Brake concept car, shown at the Tokyo Motor Show in 2005. This concept was an insight into the new TT, but featured angular styling, and a "shooting-brake" two-door hatchback body style.
Audi debuted the second-generation TT, internal designation Type 8J, on 6 April 2006, using the Volkswagen Group A5 (PQ35) platform with aluminium front bodypanels, and steel in the rear, to enhance its near-neutral front-to-rear weight distribution. Available in front-wheel drive or "quattro" four-wheel drive layout, the TT was again offered as a 2+2 Coupé, and as a two-seater Roadster. The second generation was five inches longer and three inches wider than its predecessor. Factory production commenced during August 2006.
8J powertrain
The powertrain options initially only included petrol engines, which consist of either one of two inline four-cylinder engines – the new 1.8-litre EA888 Turbocharged Fuel Stratified Injection (TFSI) (available initially only in Germany, later elsewhere from mid 2009), or the more common and established EA113-variant 2.0-litre TFSI. The Fuel Stratified Injection (FSI) technology was derived from the Audi Le Mans endurance race cars, and offers improved fuel efficiency as well as an increased power output and cleaner emissions. The 3.2-litre 'V6' badged VR6 engine was carried over from the previous generation. 2.0 TFSI quattro models, with the latest EA888 engine, became available in 2009 model year.
A six-speed manual transmission is standard, with the six-speed Direct-Shift Gearbox (now called "S-TRONIC" on all Audi models) as an option for all engines. Quattro on-demand four-wheel drive, again using the Haldex Traction clutch is available – standard on V6 models, but not available on the 1.8 TFSI.
8J suspension and other features
Like all its PQ35 platform-mates, the 8J TT has a multi-link fully independent rear suspension to complement the front independent suspension. The entire suspension system can be enhanced with Audi's new active suspension, "Audi Magnetic Ride", available as an option.  This is based on BWI Group's MagneRide, which uses magneto rheological dampers (this means that an electronic control unit for the suspension will automatically adjust its damping properties depending on the current road conditions and driving manner).
The new TT also features a revised rear spoiler which preserves the clean aesthetics of the TT when not raised. The spoiler automatically deploys at 125 km/h (78 mph) to increase down-force, and retracts again below 80 km/h (50 mph).
The spoiler can be manually controlled via a switch on the lower centre console. Manual operation by the switch reverts to automatic operation (i.e.: manual mode is cancelled) if the vehicle speed rises above the stated limit.
2.0 TDI quattro
Launched at the 2008 Geneva Motor Show, Audi offered the first diesel engined version of the Audi TT in the European market, the Audi TT 2.0 TDI quattro. As its name indicates, it is only available with four-wheel-drive, and is also available in Coupé and Roadster versions. Power comes from the new 2.0-litre Turbocharged Direct Injection (TDI) engine, now with 16 valves, double overhead camshaft (DOHC), 1.8-bar (30 psi) common rail fuel delivery and eight-hole piezo fuel injectors, which produces a DIN-rated output of 125 kW (170 PS; 168 bhp) at 4,200 rpm and torque of 350 N⋅m (258 lbf⋅ft) at 1,750 to 2,500 rpm. It includes a six-speed manual transmission.
Acceleration from standstill to 100 km/h (62.1 mph) on the Coupé is achieved in 7.5 seconds, and it will go on to reach a top speed of 226 km/h (140.4 mph). The slightly less aerodynamically efficient Roadster reaches 100 km/h (62 mph) in 7.7 seconds, with a top speed of 223 km/h (138.6 mph).
Audi claims average fuel consumption for the Coupé variant with this 2.0 TDI engine is 5.3 litres per 100 kilometres (53.3 mpg‑imp; 44.4 mpg‑US), which achieves a CO2 emissions rating of 139 gram/km. The Roadster TDI achieves an average 5.5 litres per 100 kilometres (51.4 mpg‑imp; 42.8 mpg‑US) and CO2 of 144 gram/km.
TT S-Line
As an additional package a standard Audi TT can be bought from factory with a special body kit upgrade to make it look like the Audi TT-RS version. The upgrade includes a fixed rear spoiler and Alcantara/leather sports seats (Silk Nappa, Fine Nappa leather optional).
At the 2008 North American International Auto Show (NAIAS) in Detroit, Audi released the first Audi "S" model of the TT range – the Audi TTS quattro, with a heavily revised 2.0 TFSI engine. The cylinder block, cylinder head and the fuel injectors have all been modified from the base 2.0 TFSI engine (ID: CDL).  Together with other modifications, this engine produces a DIN-rated power output of 200 kW (272 PS; 268 hp), and generates a torque of 350 N⋅m (258 lbf⋅ft) from 2,500 to 5,000 rpm.
It was available with a choice of either a six-speed close-ratio manual transmission, or a six-speed 'S tronic' transmission. In the United States, the S tronic gearbox was the only available transmission. Like all Audi "S" models, it was only available with four-wheel drive as standard.
The suspension was lowered by 10 millimetres (0.4 in) over the standard models, and includes "Audi Magnetic Ride" as standard and a new two-stage sports-biased Electronic Stability Programme (ESP). Radially ventilated front disc brakes are clamped by a single-piston gloss black caliper emblazoned with a bold TTS logo, and a lap timer is prominent in the centre of the instrument cluster. 9Jx18" '5-parallel-spoke' design alloy wheels are standard, with 245/40 ZR18 high-performance tyres.  19" '5-spoke star' wheels and tyres are optional. The exterior has some changes over the standard model – with a TTS body styling: with redesigned front, with larger air intakes, redesigned rear bumper, side sill extensions, and four exhaust tailpipes.
Official performance figures include a 0-100 km/h (0–62 mph) acceleration time of 5.2 seconds, with the Roadster four-tenths slower at 5.6 seconds. Top speed is electronically limited to 250 km/h (155 mph).
Audi UK offered eight TTS cars for official use by the race organisers at the 2008 Isle of Man TT motorcycle races.
The car went on sale in the US at November 2008.
In 2014, at the International Motor Show in Geneva, Audi unveiled the new TTS model for the 2016 model year, alongside the standard 2016 Audi TT model. Both models were planned to go on sale in the beginning of 2015.
TT Clubsport quattro concept
Audi displayed a new show car variant of the second generation Audi TT – the Audi TT Clubsport quattro, at the 2008 Wörthersee Tour at Pörtschach am Wörthersee in Austria. Shown only in an open-topped "speedster" variant, its 2.0 TFSI engine has been tuned to give 221 kW (300 PS; 296 bhp). The soft-top on the standard TT Roadster has been deleted, and replaced with two "humps", along with two substantial roll bars. LED daytime running lamps, an aggressive body kit with large frontal air intakes, black-painted "single frame grille" and a lower spoiler lip complete the new look from the front. The axle track has been widened by 66 millimetres (2.6 in), with bolder and wider wheel arch extensions, polished 19-inch alloys, wider side sills and 255-section tyres are the highlight of the side profile. At the rear, twin polished stainless steel oval tail pipes exit aside a new rear diffuser.
Racing bucket seats, along with lightweight aluminium detail complete the interior look, and a six-speed S tronic dual-clutch transmission with quattro four-wheel drive and TTS spec brakes (340 mm (13.4 in) up front, and 310 mm (12.2 in) at the rear) complete the mechanicals.
Whilst the TT Clubsport quattro is primarily a "show car", Audi has not ruled out the possibility of small-scale production.
With its world debut at the 2009 Geneva Auto Show, and developed by Audi's high-performance subsidiary quattro GmbH at Neckarsulm, Germany, Audi released the first compact sports car Audi "RS" variant – the Audi TT RS, which was available from 2009 in Coupé and Roadster variants. The TT RS featured a new 2.5-litre Inline-5 turbocharged petrol engine. This 183 kg (403 lb) engine produces a DIN-rated power output of 250 kW (340 PS; 335 bhp) from 5,400 to 6,700 rpm, and torque of 450 N⋅m (332 lbf⋅ft) at 1,600–5,300 rpm.
Ever since the original Audi "RS" model – the Audi RS2 Avant – all Audi "RS" models were assembled at the quattro GmbH factory in Neckarsulm. The TT RS is the first Audi RS vehicle that didn't have any of its assembly performed in Neckarsulm but was completely assembled in the Audi factory in Győr, Hungary, alongside the base Audi TT.
The TT RS has a new short-shift close-ratio six-speed manual transmission, and like all "RS" models, is only available with four-wheel-drive, with the TT RS using a specially adapted version of the latest generation multi-plate clutch from Haldex Traction. Additions to the quattro system include a constant velocity joint before the cardan propeller shaft, and a compact rear-axle differential – upgraded to cope with the increased torque from the five-cylinder turbo engine.
Like the TTS, the TT RS has a 10 millimetres (0.4 in) lower ride height, optional "Audi Magnetic Ride", and rides on standard 18-inch wheels with 245/45 ZR18 tyres (optional 19" or 20" wheels are also available). The brakes are upgraded to include two-piece cross-drilled and radially vented front discs, sized at 370 mm (14.6 in) in diameter. The front discs are clamped by gloss black painted four-piston calipers, adorned with the RS logo. Rear ventilated discs are sized at 310 mm (12.2 in) in diameter.
It includes a fixed rear spoiler (retractable optional), and has black interior with heated Alcantara/leather sports seats (Silk Nappa, Fine Nappa leather optional). The Recaro "RS bucket" seats, first seen in the Audi B7 RS4 are also available as an option. Also carried over from the B7 RS4 is the "Sport" button, which sharpens the throttle response and deepens the exhaust note, and a three-stage user-selectable Electronic Stability Programme (ESP).
Official performance figures indicate the TT RS Coupé will accelerate from a standstill to 100 km/h (62.1 mph) in 4.5 seconds (4.7 seconds for the Roadster), with an electronically limited top speed of 250 km/h (155 mph). There is a factory option to de-restrict the top speed to 280 km/h (174.0 mph). The Coupé has a kerb weight of 1,450 kg (3,197 lb), and the Roadster weighs in at 1,510 kg (3,329 lb).
As of 2010, the TT-RS is available with the 7-speed DSG automatic transmission capable of handling the torque delivered by the engine. The 6-speed gearbox used in the TT-S cannot cope with 450 N⋅m (332 lb⋅ft) of torque, which is why the TT-RS initially was offered only with a manual transmission.
The car went on sale in March 2009, with delivery beginning in summer.
In 2010, the TT-RS was confirmed for the US market. The decision was influenced by an internet petition to bring the TT-RS stateside, which succeeded with over 11,000 signatures. The TT-RS arrived in Q3 2011 as a 2012 model.
In 2012, the TT RS plus was launched. It featured the uprated version of the TT RS' engine that had originally been developed for the RS Q3 concept car; this version of the engine produces 355 hp (265 kW; 360 PS) at 5500 rpm, and 343 lb⋅ft (465 N⋅m) of torque at 1650 rpm. As a result of this power increase, Audi claimed that the 0-62 mph (100 km/h) time had decreased to 4.3 seconds for the manual version, and 4.1 seconds for the S-tronic version. In addition to this, Audi raised the top speed limiter, with the TT RS plus being restricted to 174 mph (280 km/h).
8J engines
The 8J powertrain options consist of the following engines and drivelines:
Audi was reported to stop offering 3.2-litre V6 (VR6) models in North America from 2010 model year.
8J awards
The second generation TT has been honoured with many awards, including the inaugural Drive Car of the Year, Top Gear Coupé of the Year 2006, Fifth Gear Car of the Year 2006, Autobild Most Beautiful Car, and World Design Car of the Year 2007, as well as being a finalist for World Car of the Year. In addition, an HPA-prepared version of the car was the winner of the SEMA Gran Turismo Award in 2007. The Audi TT has been the What Car? "best Coupe of the Year" for six consecutive years since 2007.
A 2019 iSeeCars study named the TT as the longest-lasting sports car most likely to exceed 150,000 miles.
Safety
TT Mk3 (Type FV/8S, 2014–2023)
Like its predecessor, the Audi TT FV/8S was previewed in the form of the Audi Allroad Shooting Brake concept car, shown at the Detroit Motor Show in 2014.
The third generation of the TT was unveiled at the 2014 Geneva Motor Show. The FV/8S generation utilises the Volkswagen Group MQB platform, and is available with a choice of TFSI and TDI engines. The 2.0 TFSI is available in two versions: a version producing 169 kW (230 PS; 227 hp) and 370 N⋅m (272.90 lb⋅ft) of torque in the TT and a version producing 228 kW (310 PS; 306 hp) and 380 N⋅m (280.27 lb⋅ft) of torque in the TTS. A 2.0 TDI Inline-four engine producing 135 kW (184 PS; 181 hp) and 380 N⋅m (280.27 lb⋅ft) of torque is also available as an option for the TT. The TFSI engines are available with all wheel drive. The TDI comes in front wheel drive configuration, but was then later released with the Audi's quattro all wheel drive.
In 2019, the models were updated with the following specifications:
TT 40: with a 2.0L engine producing 145 kW (197 PS; 194 hp) and 320 N⋅m (236.02 lb⋅ft) of torque
TT 45: with a 2.0L engine producing 180 kW (245 PS; 241 hp) and 370 N⋅m (272.90 lb⋅ft) of torque
TTS (from 2019 until 2021): with a 2.0L engine producing 225 kW (306 PS; 302 hp) and 400 N⋅m (295.02 lb⋅ft) of torque
TTS (from 2021 until 2023): with a 2.0L engine producing 235 kW (320 PS; 315 hp) and 400 N⋅m (295.02 lb⋅ft) of torque
TT RS: with a 2.5L engine producing 294 kW (400 PS; 394 hp) and 480 N⋅m (354.03 lb⋅ft) of torque
The third generation Audi TT features temperature and airflow controls embedded in the air-vents.
In the US, this generation was available from Model Year 2016 onward.
It was announced in May 2019 that the current generation TT would be the last, and it would be discontinued at the end of the model's lifecycle.
In 2016, the MQB-based Audi TT RS coupé and roadster were announced with the five-cylinder 2.5 litre TFSI engine now producing 294 kW (400 PS; 394 hp) and 480 N⋅m (354 lb⋅ft) of torque between 1,700 and 5,850 rpm. It was only offered in Audi's all-wheel drive quattro system and the 7-speed S-tronic automatic transmission.
Special editions
TT RS Heritage Edition
Audi discontinued the TT RS in the United States after the 2022 model year, so they released the TT RS Heritage Edition, a special edition available in five colors and produced in just 50 units. Ten of each color will be made, each color representing a Ur-Quattro rally champion:
Alpine white with ocean blue leather and diamond silver stitch
Helios blue metallic diamond silver leather and ocean blue stitch
Stone gray metallic with crimson red leather and jet gray stitch
Tizian red metallic with Havanna brown leather and jet gray stitch
Malachite green metallic with cognac brown leather and black stitch
TT RS Audi Sport Performance Parts Edition
Audi Sport Performance Parts were available from 2018 to 2020 from Audi Dealerships in Europe. These parts were designed to improve dynamic handling for the Audi R8 and the Audi TT models. The retrofit range were available as add-on features for new car buyers who ordered their cars as a new car customer build. Only 15 fully built example cars were made complete with all the features from the Audi Sport Factory which were distributed around the world for the purpose of International car shows. The 15 Factory built TT RS Audi Sport Performance parts edition cars had their own build type and known as ultra rare around the world. 13 are known to be in Europe (LHD) and 2 in Australia (RHD).
TT RS Iconic Edition
In October 2022, Audi launched the TT RS Coupé Iconic Edition, available only in Europe and produced 100 cars (of which only 11 are right-hand drive).
TT/TT S Final Edition
In 2023, Audi unveiled the Final Edition of the TT, coinciding with the discontinuation of the TT due to declining sales of the two-door coupé segment. The Final Edition TTs feature black exterior accents consisting of the tailpipes, badges and rings, door mirrors, and fixed spoiler. The roadster is equipped with black roll bars and a black wind diffuser, while the coupé receives privacy glass. The TT Final Edition receives 20-inch, Y-style five spoke matte grey finished wheels with red brake calipers, while the TT S Final Edition is fitted with seven spoke black alloy wheels of Audi Sport. Both body styles are available in either Chronos Grey Metallic, Glacier White, or Tango Red body colors.
On the interior, the Final Edition is equipped with the extended leather package, which adds the material to the center console trim, armrests, and door pull handles. A red stitched Alcantara steering wheel is fitted, with a 12 o'clock marker unique to the Final Edition. The air vents, armrests, and center console of the coupe are adorned with Tango Red accents. The Alcantara-trimmed seats feature red stitching, and the floor mats receive red piping as well. The Final Edition is exclusive to the United Kingdom, with Audi confirming that it will not be available in North America.
Motorsport
In auto racing, the Istook's Motorsports team has currently entered a Revo Technik-sponsored Audi TT in the Grand-Am KONI Sports Car Challenge Street Tuner (ST) class.
Under the racing name of RS Werkes, Istook's Motorsports out of Fort Worth, Texas, built and raced the first TT RS brought into the United States in the Grand Am GS class in 2012, 2013 and 2014.
An Audi TT RS was used at the 2009 24 Hours of Le Mans race as the safety car.
The Abt Sportsline team entered a TT into the DTM, and Laurent Aïello took the title in 2002.
Istook's Motorsports has also raced the TT in SCCA's World Challenge race series. Because of their racing involvement, they received the first U.S. Version of the TT-RS in July 2011.
Audi TT Offroad
The Audi TT Offroad Concept was unveiled as an SUV concept version of the Audi TT at the 2014 Auto China. The SUV utilized a hybrid system coupled with the 2.0-litre TFSI Inline-4 engine producing a total of 304 kW (413 PS; 408 hp) and 649 N⋅m (479 lb⋅ft) of torque. The SUV utilises a 6-speed dual clutch automatic transmission. The hybrid system consists of a 40 kW (54 PS; 54 hp) electric motor on the front axle and an 85 kW (116 PS; 114 hp) electric motor on the rear axle. In full EV mode, the vehicle uses the rear motor only; Hybrid and Sport modes utilise all three power sources, and all-wheel-drive traction is applied as needed. Performance figures include a 0–62 mph (0–100 km/h) acceleration time of 5.2 seconds and an electronically limited top speed of 155 mph (249 km/h). The distinguishing features of the concept include matrix LED headlights and two new assistance systems: One that scans intersections for potentially dangerous situations, and a second that connects to a municipality's traffic-light system in order to recommend a perfect speed to reach the next light when it is green. The interior is relatively close to the TT's with leather upholstery from Italian fashion brand Poltrona Frau and features a high-tech TFT display in front of the driver populated with the information that would normally be projected onto a central, dash-mounted screen—i.e. navigation, entertainment. The trunk of the vehicle contains a 1:8 scale RC car as a souvenir.
Marketing
Due to Audi's heavy sponsorship of the Marvel Cinematic Universe, the TTS coupe made a cameo in Avengers: Age of Ultron. A convertible TTS was also owned by Flash Thompson and driven by Peter Parker in Spider-Man: Homecoming.
Bibliography
Lewandowski, Jürgen, Staretz, David, Völker, Herbert: Das TT Buch. Delius Klasing, Bielefeld 1999, ISBN 3-7688-1117-4.
Ruppert, James: Audi TT – The complete Story. The Crowood Press, Marlborough 2003, ISBN 1-86126-585-9 (in englisch)
Maxeiner, Dirk, Lewandowski, Jürgen, Vann, Peter: Excittement – Die neue Generation des Audi TT. Delius Klasing, Bielefeld 2006, ISBN 3-7688-1881-0.
Kraus-Weysser, Folker: Audi TT. Steiger, Augsburg 1999, ISBN 3-89652-189-6
See also
Audi S and RS models
References
External links
Audi.com – international Audi brand portal
Audi-TT.eu – Audi TT MK1 information page, including the Dutch TT 8N 3.2 Roadster register
Audi TT lounge – official Audi TT international microsite
In Depth: The New (2006) Audi TT Coupé Archived 16 December 2018 at the Wayback Machine, from AudiWorld.com
Audi TT 2.7T B5 RS: The unknown prototype Archived 11 November 2020 at the Wayback Machine, from fourtitude.com


--- Audi e-tron ---
The Audi e-tron is a series of electric and hybrid cars shown by Audi from 2009 onwards. In 2012 Audi unveiled a plug-in hybrid version, the A3 Sportback e-tron, released to retail customers in Europe in August 2014, and slated for the U.S. in 2015. A decade after the unveiling of the first e-tron concept at the 2009 International Motor Show Germany, Audi's first fully electric e-tron SUV went into production in 2019.
The name has also been used on some racing cars.
Production vehicles
Audi R8 E-Tron (2015)
The R8 E-Tron was an electric version of the Audi R8. It got to 100 kilometers an hour in under 4 seconds, and a claimed range of over 280 miles. Less than 100 were produced, making it a limited production vehicle.
Audi E-tron (2019)
Audi E-tron 55
5 seats,
5014 mm, 1976 mm,1686 mm, 2595 kg, 3170 kg,
Electric motor dual 300 kW (408 hp)
Tork 664 Nm
Type 2 CCS
AC 11 kW
AC 22 kW
DC 150 kW
%80 30dk
95 kWh 86 kWh
WTLP 26,2 kWh/100km
4x4 Quattro All-wheel Drive
max 200 km/h
0-100km/h 5,7 s
Audi E-tron 50
5 seats,
5014 mm, 1976 mm, 1686 mm, 2445 kg, 3040 kg,
Electric motor 230 kW / 313 hp
Tork 540 Nm
Type 2 CCS
AC 11 kW
AC 22 kW
DC 120 kW
%80 30dk
71 kWh 64 kWh
WTLP 26,6 kWh/100 km
4x4 Quattro All-wheel Drive
max 190 km/h
0-100km/h 6,8 s
Q8 e-tron (2018)
An SUV formerly called the "Audi e-tron", with a 328-kilometer (204-mile) EPA range and a 95-kWh battery, entered production in 2018 and was first delivered in 2019. The vehicle is sold in many countries, including the US, Canada and multiple countries in Europe. At the end of September 2019, there were more than 10,000 e-trons registered worldwide.
Audi announced that the facelifted e-tron will be renamed, and will be sold as the Audi Q8 e-tron; it was revealed on November 9, 2022.
Q2L e-tron (2019)
The Q2L e-tron is an all-electric version of the long-wheelbase variant of the subcompact SUV Audi Q2, which went into production at the Foshan plant in November 2019 and is sold exclusively in China. Powered by a 38 kWh lithium-ion battery of Chinese supplier Contemporary Amperex Technology, the Q2L e-tron has a range of 265 kilometres (165 mi) on one charge and a top speed of 150 km/h (93 mph). Its electric motor delivers the maximum power of 100 kW (134 hp) and maximum torque of 290 N⋅m (214 lbf⋅ft).
Q8 e-tron Sportback (2020)
The e-tron Sportback is an all-electric coupé SUV shown first as a concept at the 2017 Shanghai Motor Show. It has the same powertrain/battery as the e-tron SUV. Both cars are produced in Brussels, Belgium. As in the e-tron SUV, the battery of the vehicle is liquid-cooled.
The production version was revealed at the 2019 Los Angeles Auto Show. European and American deliveries started in 2020.
The 2020 e-tron Sportback has an EPA range of 351 kilometres (218 mi). It is better than in the 2019 e-tron SUV, partially because a larger percentage of the battery capacity is usable. The e-tron's battery management system keeps part of the battery capacity as a buffer, which is not part of the usable capacity; now the size of that buffer was decreased to unlock more usable capacity. This change was introduced in the e-tron SUV during the production run, while in the e-tron Sportback, which entered production later, it was available from the beginning.
In 2022, it was announced that the vehicle will be renamed. It is now known as the Audi Q8 e-tron Sportback.
e-tron GT (2021)
The e-tron GT is a four-door all-electric grand tourer. The concept model was showcased at the 2018 Los Angeles Auto Show. It is built on the same platform as the Porsche Taycan. It is fitted with an 800-volt system, which substantially reduces charging times. The vehicle is driven by two permanently excited synchronous electric motors with a combined power output of 434 kW (582 hp). A 90-kWh lithium-ion battery powers the e-tron GT's electric engines and enables it to travel up to 400 km (249 mi) according to the new WLTP standard.
The e-tron GT concept made an appearance in the 2019 film Avengers: Endgame, in which Tony Stark drives the e-tron GT in one scene in the film. Production model is announced for 9 February 2021.
Q4 e-tron (2021)
The Q4 e-tron is a battery electric crossover SUV unveiled at the 2019 Geneva Motor Show as a concept model. According to the Audi, the use of VW's MEB platform should improve its affordability. The production model is released in April 2021.
Q4 e-tron Sportback (2021)
The Audi Q4 e-tron Sportback is a battery electric coupe crossover unveiled alongside the standard Q4 e-tron. It will be coming for sale in 2021 along with the Q4 e-tron. Both of these cars will be based on the Volkswagen's MEB platform. The Q4 e-tron Sportback has a drag coefficient of 0.26.
Q5 e-tron (2021)
The Q5 e-tron is a battery electric crossover SUV unveiled at the 2021 Guangzhou Auto Show. It is based on the MEB platform similar to the Q4 e-tron. Produced and marketed exclusively for the Chinese market, it is the first three-row SUV of the e-tron series.
Q6 e-tron (2024)
The Q6 e-tron is a battery electric crossover SUV unveiled at the 2023 Munich Motor Show as a prototype model. The production model is released in March 2024.
Q6 e-tron Sportback (2024)
The Audi Q6 e-tron Sportback is a battery electric coupe crossover unveiled alongside the standard Q6 e-tron. It will be coming for sale in 2024 along with the Q6 e-tron. Both of these cars will be based on the Volkswagen's PPE platform. The Q6 e-tron Sportback has a drag coefficient of 0.26.
A6 e-tron (2024)
The A6 e-tron is a battery electric sedan and station wagon unveiled at the 2021 Auto Shanghai as a concept model. The production model is released in July 2024.
A2 e-tron (2026)
In March 2026, Audi announced a new entry-level electric model, the A2 e-tron, which is scheduled to hit the market in the fall.
Other vehicles
Audi have announced to launch 12 fully electric e-tron models by 2025. Audi considers a sell price level of €100/kWh as suitable for higher-priced cars, but not for cheaper cars made in high volume.
Audi A4-sized EV, a sedan based on the PPE platform; planned production 2023.
Audi PB18 e-tron concept, a mid-engine concept car designed as a radical driving machine for the racetrack and road.
Production vehicles (hybrid drivetrain)
A3 Sportback e-tron plug-in hybrid (2013-2018, 2020)
In June 2012 the carmaker confirmed production plans for a plug-in hybrid version of the A3. The plug-in hybrid concept car was unveiled at the 2013 Geneva Motor Show. The basic powertrain hardware of the Audi A3 e-tron is shared by the Volkswagen Golf GTE plug-in hybrid, but the software controls of each car are different. In May 2013 Audi announced its decision to produce only a plug-in hybrid version, the Audi A3 Sportback e-tron. The A3 Sportback e-tron has an 8.8 kWh battery pack that delivers an all-electric range of 50 km (31 mi) on the NEDC cycle, and a total of 940 km (580 mi). The plug-in hybrid can reach a top speed of 220 km/h (140 mph) and can reach 100 km/h (62 mph) in 7.6 seconds. According to Audi the car has an average fuel efficiency of 1.25 L/100 km (188 mpg‑US) and CO2 emissions of 35g/km.
In September 2013, at the Frankfurt Motor Show, Audi announced that pricing for the Audi A3 Sportback e-tron will start in Germany at €37,000 (US$44578.31). The vehicle is also scheduled to arrive in Australia in early 2015. On 1 August 2014, Audi announced the vehicle is now on sale across Europe at the companies 410 dealerships starting at €37,900 (US$45662.65).
The first 227 vehicles were registered in Germany in August 2014. According to JATO Dynamics, a total of 415 vehicles have been registered worldwide through September 2014, of which, 250 were registered in Germany.
Retail sales were scheduled to begin in the U.S. in early 2015. In an April 2015 video, Audi America president Scott Keogh said the 'price point is going to be around $40,000,' but made no indication if that was before or after tax incentives.
Audi discontinued the A3 PHEV Sportback e-tron in Europe in November 2018. However, the model was briefly re-introduced at the end of 2019 for MY20, now called A3 Sportback 40 e-tron under Audi's new naming scheme. The revised A3 e-tron in the UK featured a different level of specification, losing the previously standard LED headlights but gaining Audi's virtual cockpit as standard. The revised model featured the same battery and drivetrain as before, now rated at 35 km (22 mi) of electric range under the new WLTP test.
Concept vehicles
e-tron Frankfurt (2009)
The first e-tron concept car was shown at the 2009 International Motor Show Germany. A two-seater, similar in appearance to the Audi R8 but slightly smaller, is powered by four UQM Technologies motors, providing four-wheel drive. Together, these produce 230 kW (310 PS; 310 hp) and 4,500 N⋅m (3,300 lb⋅ft) of torque, allowing the car to accelerate from 0 to 100 km/h (62 mph) in 4.8 seconds.
A 470 kg (1,036 lb) 42.4 kWh lithium-ion battery is located in front of the rear axle and provides a range of approximately 248 km (154 mi) with a full charge taking 6–8 hours from a normal household socket. It has ceramic disc brakes as well as regenerative braking. In 2010 Audi began a development program with the objective to manufacture a limited production R8 e-tron. The R8 e-tron made a brief appearance in the 2013 Marvel Studios release of Iron Man 3.
After developing 10 prototypes for research and development purposes, in May 2013 Audi decided to cancel production of the electric car due to its limited all-electric range as battery technology had not advanced as quickly as Audi had expected, making the R8 e-tron unviable for series production. In March 2014 Audi revised its decision and announced it will build the R8 e-tron upon request. The carmaker explained that their latest development work resulted in an increased range from 215 km (134 mi) to approximately 450 km (280 mi).
e-tron Detroit showcar (2010)
The Audi e-tron Detroit showcar (confusingly, also named "e-tron") includes 2 electric motors driving the rear wheels with a combined output of 150 kilowatts (200 PS; 200 hp) and 2,650 N⋅m (1,950 lb⋅ft) of torque, with lithium-ion batteries behind passenger compartment and ahead of the rear axle, adaptive matrix beam LED headlight modules with clear glass covers, fully automatic light assistance system, Audi Space Frame with doors, lids, sidewalls and roof made of a fiber-reinforced plastic; built-in central display with integrated MMI functions, front axle hydraulic fixed-caliper brake, electrically actuated floating-caliper brakes mounted on the rear axle, heat pump, triangular double wishbones made of forged aluminum components at the front and rear axles, direct rack-and-pinion steering, 19-inch wheels of 35-spoke design, 235/35 front and 255/35 rear tires. The concept car can accelerate from 0–100 km/h (0–62 mph) in 5.9 seconds.
The vehicle was unveiled in the 2010 North American International Auto Show in Detroit.
A similar production model, based on a future mid-engined automotive platform codenamed 9X1, shared with Porsche and Volkswagen, is reportedly under development.
A1 e-tron (2010)
The Audi A1 e-tron concept car, an electric variant of the Audi A1 production model, was first shown at the 2010 Geneva Motor Show. The A1 e-tron is a series plug-in hybrid, powered by an electric motor from UQM with a continuous output of 45 kW (61 PS; 60 bhp), and a peak output of 75 kW (102 PS; 101 bhp). A 254 cc Wankel engine is also used to power a 15 kW (20 PS; 20 bhp) range-extending generator.
e-tron Spyder (2010)
Shown at the 2010 Paris Motor Show, this roadster is a plug-in hybrid powered by a 221 kW (296 bhp) twin-turbo TDI 3.0 L V6 diesel engine driving the rear wheels, plus two electric motors together producing 64 kW (86 bhp) powering the front wheels. Acceleration to 100 km/h (62 mph) is achieved in 4.4 seconds, and it could theoretically travel 48 km (30 mi) on electric power at the equivalent of 107 mpg. Audi also claimed the car had a range of 620 miles on combined diesel and electric power.
Audi presented the e-tron Spyder in January 2011 at the Las Vegas Consumer Electronics Show, near identical to the Paris show car, but this time painted bright red. The car was advertised with the same performance specifications, including an electronically limited top speed of 250 km/h (155 mph).
A3 Sportback e-tron all-electric (2011)
The Audi A3 e-tron is an all-electric car variant of the Audi A3 production model. The A3 e-tron is powered by an electric motor under the hood which sends power from the rear- and mid-mounted battery packs to the front wheels. The 26.5 kWh lithium-ion battery pack provides an optimal range of around 148 km (92 mi), but between 113 and 121 km (70 and 75 mi) in real driving conditions. Top speed is limited to 143 km/h (89 mph).
Audi deployed a fleet of 17 all-electric A3 by mid-2012 as part of a testing program in the U.S. The testing is conducted among Audi's engineers and company employees, and the company has no plans to test the vehicles with customers.
R8 e-tron (2015)
The production version of the Audi R8 e-tron was introduced at the 2015 Geneva Motor Show. The limited production electric sports car was available only in Europe. Fewer than 100 units were sold at the end of production run.
A6 e-tron (2021)
The A6 e-tron was introduced at the April 2021 Auto Shanghai. It is expected to be built on the PPE platform co-developed with Porsche.
Race cars
Le Mans Prototype racing cars
Audi used the e-tron quattro name on some versions of its Audi R18 racing car competing in the Le Mans Prototype class.
The car won the 24 Hours of Le Mans in 2012, 2013 and 2014.
RS Q e-tron (2021-)
It is an off-road race car, originally built to complete in 2022 Dakar Rally.
S1 e-tron quattro Hoonitron (2021)
It is a version of Audi S1 developed for Block's Elektrikhana video, based on Ken Block's 1980s Audi Sport quattro S1 Pikes Peak race car.
See also
List of electric cars currently available
List of production battery electric vehicles
References
External links
Audi e-tron. "Design & Technology". Audi Expereience. Audi Worldwide. Archived from the original on 27 November 2010.


=== NHTSA MODEL DATA ===
Audi makes the following models: 100, 200, 4000, 5000, 80, 90, A3, A4, A4 allroad, A5, A6, A6 allroad, A7, A7 e, A8, A8 L, A8 L e, A8 e, Cabriolet, Coupe, Q3, Q4, Q5, Q5 e, Q6, Q7, Q8, R8, RS 3, RS 4, RS 5, RS 6, RS 6 Avant, RS 7, RS Q8, RS e-tron GT, S e-tron GT, S3, S4, S5, S6, S7, S8, SQ5, SQ6, SQ7, SQ8, TT, TT RS, TTS, V8, allroad, e-tron, e-tron GT, e-tron Sportback.

Q: What models does Audi make?
A: Audi makes many models including the 100, 200, 4000, 5000, 80, 90, A3, A4, A4 allroad, A5, A6, A6 allroad, and more.

Q: What vehicles does Audi produce?
A: Audi produces the 100, 200, 4000, 5000, 80, 90, A3, A4, A4 allroad, A5, A6, A6 allroad, among others.

Q: Can you list some Audi models?
A: Some Audi models include the 100, 200, 4000, 5000, 80, 90, A3, A4, A4 allroad, A5, A6, A6 allroad.

Q: Is the 100 an Audi model?
A: Yes, the 100 is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi 100?
A: The Audi 100 is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the 200 an Audi model?
A: Yes, the 200 is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi 200?
A: The Audi 200 is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the 4000 an Audi model?
A: Yes, the 4000 is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi 4000?
A: The Audi 4000 is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the 5000 an Audi model?
A: Yes, the 5000 is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi 5000?
A: The Audi 5000 is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the 80 an Audi model?
A: Yes, the 80 is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi 80?
A: The Audi 80 is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the 90 an Audi model?
A: Yes, the 90 is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi 90?
A: The Audi 90 is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the A3 an Audi model?
A: Yes, the A3 is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi A3?
A: The Audi A3 is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the A4 an Audi model?
A: Yes, the A4 is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi A4?
A: The Audi A4 is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the A4 allroad an Audi model?
A: Yes, the A4 allroad is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi A4 allroad?
A: The Audi A4 allroad is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the A5 an Audi model?
A: Yes, the A5 is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi A5?
A: The Audi A5 is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the A6 an Audi model?
A: Yes, the A6 is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi A6?
A: The Audi A6 is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the A6 allroad an Audi model?
A: Yes, the A6 allroad is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi A6 allroad?
A: The Audi A6 allroad is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the A7 an Audi model?
A: Yes, the A7 is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi A7?
A: The Audi A7 is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the A7 e an Audi model?
A: Yes, the A7 e is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi A7 e?
A: The Audi A7 e is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the A8 an Audi model?
A: Yes, the A8 is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi A8?
A: The Audi A8 is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the A8 L an Audi model?
A: Yes, the A8 L is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi A8 L?
A: The Audi A8 L is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the A8 L e an Audi model?
A: Yes, the A8 L e is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi A8 L e?
A: The Audi A8 L e is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the A8 e an Audi model?
A: Yes, the A8 e is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi A8 e?
A: The Audi A8 e is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the Cabriolet an Audi model?
A: Yes, the Cabriolet is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi Cabriolet?
A: The Audi Cabriolet is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the Coupe an Audi model?
A: Yes, the Coupe is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi Coupe?
A: The Audi Coupe is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the Q3 an Audi model?
A: Yes, the Q3 is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi Q3?
A: The Audi Q3 is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the Q4 an Audi model?
A: Yes, the Q4 is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi Q4?
A: The Audi Q4 is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the Q5 an Audi model?
A: Yes, the Q5 is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi Q5?
A: The Audi Q5 is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the Q5 e an Audi model?
A: Yes, the Q5 e is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi Q5 e?
A: The Audi Q5 e is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the Q6 an Audi model?
A: Yes, the Q6 is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi Q6?
A: The Audi Q6 is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the Q7 an Audi model?
A: Yes, the Q7 is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi Q7?
A: The Audi Q7 is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the Q8 an Audi model?
A: Yes, the Q8 is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi Q8?
A: The Audi Q8 is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the R8 an Audi model?
A: Yes, the R8 is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi R8?
A: The Audi R8 is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the RS 3 an Audi model?
A: Yes, the RS 3 is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi RS 3?
A: The Audi RS 3 is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the RS 4 an Audi model?
A: Yes, the RS 4 is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi RS 4?
A: The Audi RS 4 is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the RS 5 an Audi model?
A: Yes, the RS 5 is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi RS 5?
A: The Audi RS 5 is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the RS 6 an Audi model?
A: Yes, the RS 6 is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi RS 6?
A: The Audi RS 6 is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the RS 6 Avant an Audi model?
A: Yes, the RS 6 Avant is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi RS 6 Avant?
A: The Audi RS 6 Avant is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the RS 7 an Audi model?
A: Yes, the RS 7 is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi RS 7?
A: The Audi RS 7 is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the RS Q8 an Audi model?
A: Yes, the RS Q8 is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi RS Q8?
A: The Audi RS Q8 is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the RS e-tron GT an Audi model?
A: Yes, the RS e-tron GT is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi RS e-tron GT?
A: The Audi RS e-tron GT is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the S e-tron GT an Audi model?
A: Yes, the S e-tron GT is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi S e-tron GT?
A: The Audi S e-tron GT is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the S3 an Audi model?
A: Yes, the S3 is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi S3?
A: The Audi S3 is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the S4 an Audi model?
A: Yes, the S4 is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi S4?
A: The Audi S4 is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the S5 an Audi model?
A: Yes, the S5 is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi S5?
A: The Audi S5 is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the S6 an Audi model?
A: Yes, the S6 is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi S6?
A: The Audi S6 is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the S7 an Audi model?
A: Yes, the S7 is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi S7?
A: The Audi S7 is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the S8 an Audi model?
A: Yes, the S8 is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi S8?
A: The Audi S8 is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the SQ5 an Audi model?
A: Yes, the SQ5 is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi SQ5?
A: The Audi SQ5 is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the SQ6 an Audi model?
A: Yes, the SQ6 is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi SQ6?
A: The Audi SQ6 is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the SQ7 an Audi model?
A: Yes, the SQ7 is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi SQ7?
A: The Audi SQ7 is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the SQ8 an Audi model?
A: Yes, the SQ8 is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi SQ8?
A: The Audi SQ8 is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the TT an Audi model?
A: Yes, the TT is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi TT?
A: The Audi TT is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the TT RS an Audi model?
A: Yes, the TT RS is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi TT RS?
A: The Audi TT RS is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the TTS an Audi model?
A: Yes, the TTS is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi TTS?
A: The Audi TTS is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the V8 an Audi model?
A: Yes, the V8 is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi V8?
A: The Audi V8 is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the allroad an Audi model?
A: Yes, the allroad is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi allroad?
A: The Audi allroad is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the e-tron an Audi model?
A: Yes, the e-tron is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi e-tron?
A: The Audi e-tron is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the e-tron GT an Audi model?
A: Yes, the e-tron GT is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi e-tron GT?
A: The Audi e-tron GT is made by Audi AG.

Q: Is the e-tron Sportback an Audi model?
A: Yes, the e-tron Sportback is a model made by Audi.

Q: Who makes the Audi e-tron Sportback?
A: The Audi e-tron Sportback is made by Audi AG.



=== AUDI KNOWLEDGE BASE ===
Audi AG is a German manufacturer of luxury and performance vehicles headquartered in Ingolstadt, Bavaria, Germany.
Audi is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Volkswagen Group.
Audi was founded in 1909 by August Horch.
The four rings in the Audi logo represent the four companies that merged to form Auto Union in 1932: Audi, DKW, Horch, and Wanderer.

Q: Where is Audi headquartered?
A: Audi is headquartered in Ingolstadt, Bavaria, Germany.

Q: Who founded Audi?
A: Audi was founded by August Horch in 1909.

Q: What does the Audi logo mean?
A: The four rings in the Audi logo represent the four companies that merged to form Auto Union in 1932: Audi, DKW, Horch, and Wanderer.

Q: What group does Audi belong to?
A: Audi is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Volkswagen Group.

Q: What does Audi mean?
A: Audi is the Latin translation of the German surname Horch, meaning to hark or listen.

--- Audi Model Lines ---

Audi organises its vehicles into several distinct model lines.
The A-series consists of Audi's standard luxury sedans and wagons: the A1, A3, A4, A5, A6, A7, and A8.
The Q-series consists of Audi's SUVs and crossovers: the Q2, Q3, Q4, Q5, Q7, and Q8.
The S-series are sportier, higher performance versions of the A-series models: S3, S4, S5, S6, S7, and S8.
The RS series are Audi's highest performance models. RS stands for Rennsport, which is German for race sport.
The TT is a sports coupe available in standard, TTS, and TT RS variants.
The R8 is Audi's mid-engine supercar featuring a naturally aspirated V10 engine.
The e-tron lineup consists of Audi's fully electric vehicles.

Q: What is the Audi A-series?
A: The Audi A-series is Audi's standard luxury lineup of sedans and wagons. It includes the A1, A3, A4, A5, A6, A7, and A8, ranging from compact to full-size luxury.

Q: What is the Audi Q-series?
A: The Audi Q-series is Audi's lineup of SUVs and crossovers. It includes the Q2, Q3, Q4, Q5, Q7, and Q8.

Q: What is the Audi S-series?
A: The Audi S-series are sportier, higher-performance versions of the A-series models. For example, the S4 is a performance version of the A4.

Q: What does RS stand for in Audi model names?
A: RS stands for Rennsport, which is German for race sport. Audi RS models are the highest performance variants of each model line.

Q: What is an Audi RS model?
A: Audi RS models are the highest performance variants in Audi's lineup. RS stands for Rennsport, meaning race sport in German. Examples include the RS 4, RS 6, RS Q8, and RS e-tron GT.

Q: What is the difference between the Audi A4 and S4?
A: The Audi S4 is a high-performance version of the A4. The S4 has a more powerful engine, sportier suspension, and sport-oriented interior compared to the standard A4.

Q: What is the difference between the Audi S4 and RS 4?
A: The RS 4 is more powerful and track-focused than the S4. The RS 4 is Audi's top performance version of the A4, with even more power and sportier tuning than the S4.

Q: What is the performance hierarchy in Audi models?
A: The performance hierarchy in Audi models goes from standard to sport to race: A-series (standard) then S-series (sport) then RS-series (race sport, highest performance).

--- Audi quattro ---

Audi quattro is Audi's permanent all-wheel-drive system.
Audi quattro was first introduced in 1980 on the original Audi Quattro coupe.
The Audi quattro system distributes power to all four wheels, giving better traction and handling.
Quattro is available across most Audi model lines.
The original Audi Quattro rally car dominated the World Rally Championship in the early 1980s.

Q: What is Audi quattro?
A: Audi quattro is Audi's legendary permanent all-wheel-drive system, first introduced in 1980. It distributes power to all four wheels for better traction and handling in all conditions.

Q: When was Audi quattro introduced?
A: Audi quattro all-wheel drive was first introduced in 1980 on the original Audi Quattro coupe.

Q: Is Audi quattro available on all models?
A: Quattro all-wheel drive is available on most Audi models and is standard on all S and RS variants.

--- Audi A4 ---

The Audi A4 is a compact executive car that has been produced since 1994.
The A4 is one of Audi's best-selling models worldwide.
The A4 is available as a sedan and an Avant wagon.
The Audi S4 is the high-performance variant of the A4.
The Audi RS 4 is the top performance variant of the A4.

Q: What is the Audi A4?
A: The Audi A4 is a compact executive car that has been in production since 1994. It is one of Audi's best-selling models and is available as a sedan and an Avant wagon.

Q: When was the Audi A4 first produced?
A: The Audi A4 has been in production since 1994. It replaced the Audi 80 in Audi's lineup.

Q: What body styles does the Audi A4 come in?
A: The Audi A4 is available as a sedan and as an Avant, which is a station wagon.

--- Audi Q7 ---

The Audi Q7 is a full-size luxury SUV produced by Audi.
The Q7 was first introduced in 2005 as Audi's first SUV.
The Q7 is a three-row SUV, meaning it has seven seats.
The Audi Q8 is a sportier, coupe-styled version of the Q7 platform.
The SQ7 is the high-performance variant of the Q7.

Q: What is the Audi Q7?
A: The Audi Q7 is a full-size three-row luxury SUV. It was first introduced in 2005 and was Audi's first SUV. It seats up to seven passengers.

Q: When was the Audi Q7 first produced?
A: The Audi Q7 was first introduced in 2005. It was Audi's first SUV model.

Q: How many seats does the Audi Q7 have?
A: The Audi Q7 is a three-row SUV that seats up to seven passengers.

Q: What is the difference between the Q7 and Q8?
A: The Audi Q8 is a sportier, coupe-styled SUV based on the Q7 platform. The Q7 has a more traditional SUV shape with three rows of seats, while the Q8 has a sloping roofline and focuses on two rows.

--- Audi R8 ---

The Audi R8 is Audi's mid-engine supercar.
The R8 was first introduced in 2006.
The Audi R8 features a naturally aspirated V10 engine in its most powerful form.
The R8 shares its platform with the Lamborghini Huracan.
The R8 is built at Audi's Neckarsulm facility.

Q: What is the Audi R8?
A: The Audi R8 is Audi's mid-engine supercar. Introduced in 2006, it features a naturally aspirated V10 engine in its top variant and shares its platform with the Lamborghini Huracan.

Q: When was the Audi R8 introduced?
A: The Audi R8 was first introduced in 2006.

Q: What engine does the Audi R8 have?
A: The Audi R8 is available with a V10 naturally aspirated engine in its most powerful form. It is a mid-engine supercar.

Q: What car does the Audi R8 share its platform with?
A: The Audi R8 shares its platform with the Lamborghini Huracan.

Q: What is Audi's most powerful production car?
A: The Audi R8 with the V10 engine is one of Audi's most powerful production cars. The RS e-tron GT is also among Audi's most powerful vehicles.

--- Audi TT ---

The Audi TT is a sports coupe that has been in production since 1998.
The TT is available as a coupe and a roadster convertible.
The TTS is a higher performance version of the TT.
The TT RS is the top performance variant of the TT, with a five-cylinder turbocharged engine.

Q: What is the Audi TT?
A: The Audi TT is a compact sports coupe that has been in production since 1998. It is available as a coupe and as a roadster convertible.

Q: When was the Audi TT first made?
A: The Audi TT has been in production since 1998.

Q: What is the TT RS?
A: The Audi TT RS is the top performance variant of the TT lineup. It features a five-cylinder turbocharged engine and is the most powerful version of the TT.

--- Audi Electric Vehicles ---

Audi's electric vehicle lineup is called the e-tron.
The Audi e-tron was Audi's first fully electric SUV.
The Audi e-tron GT is a fully electric gran turismo sports car.
The e-tron GT shares its platform with the Porsche Taycan.
The Audi Q4 e-tron is a compact electric SUV.
The Audi Q8 e-tron is Audi's full-size electric SUV.

Q: What are Audi's electric vehicles?
A: Audi's electric vehicle lineup is branded as e-tron. It includes the e-tron SUV, e-tron GT sports car, Q4 e-tron compact SUV, and Q8 e-tron full-size SUV.

Q: What is the Audi e-tron?
A: The Audi e-tron is Audi's fully electric vehicle range. The original e-tron was Audi's first fully electric SUV. The e-tron GT is a fully electric gran turismo sports car that shares its platform with the Porsche Taycan.

Q: What is the Audi e-tron GT?
A: The Audi e-tron GT is a fully electric gran turismo sports car. It shares its platform with the Porsche Taycan and is available in a standard and high-performance RS e-tron GT variant.

Q: What platform does the Audi e-tron GT share?
A: The Audi e-tron GT shares its platform with the Porsche Taycan.

--- Flagship Models ---

The Audi A8 is Audi's flagship full-size luxury sedan.
The Audi Q8 is Audi's flagship luxury SUV.
The Audi R8 is Audi's flagship supercar.
The Audi A8 competes with vehicles like the BMW 7 Series and Mercedes-Benz S-Class.

Q: What is Audi's flagship sedan?
A: The Audi A8 is Audi's flagship full-size luxury sedan, positioned at the top of the A-series lineup.

Q: What is Audi's flagship SUV?
A: The Audi Q8 is Audi's flagship luxury SUV.

Q: What is Audi's flagship car?
A: Audi's flagship lineup includes the A8 (flagship sedan), Q8 (flagship SUV), and R8 (flagship supercar).

--- Audi allroad ---

The Audi allroad is a raised, all-terrain version of the Audi A4 Avant or A6 Avant wagon.
The allroad has higher ground clearance than standard Audi wagons.
The allroad is designed for light off-road use and rough terrain.

Q: What is the Audi allroad?
A: The Audi allroad is a raised, all-terrain version of the Audi Avant wagon. It has higher ground clearance and is designed for light off-road use.

--- General Audi Facts ---

Audi vehicles are known for high build quality, advanced technology, and performance.
Audi's Virtual Cockpit is a fully digital instrument cluster replacing traditional gauges.
Audi's MMI system is its multimedia interface for infotainment control.
Audi Sport GmbH is the subsidiary responsible for RS and R8 models.

Q: What is Audi known for?
A: Audi is known for luxury vehicles, advanced technology, and high-performance cars. Audi is particularly known for its quattro all-wheel-drive system and its RS performance models.

Q: What is Audi Sport GmbH?
A: Audi Sport GmbH is the subsidiary of Audi responsible for developing and producing the RS and R8 high-performance models.

Q: What country is Audi from?
A: Audi is a German company, headquartered in Ingolstadt, Bavaria, Germany.

Q: Is Audi a luxury brand?
A: Yes, Audi is a German luxury automotive brand. It produces luxury vehicles ranging from compact cars to full-size sedans, SUVs, and supercars.

=== GENERAL VEHICLE MIX ===

Q: Is the Sportage a Kia vehicle?

Q: Is the Accelerate a Accelerate vehicle?


A: Yes, the MTT850 (Tracer 900) is made by Yamaha.
Q: Does Amd make a vehicle called the Ranger X?
A: Yes, the Model X is made by Tesla.

Q: Is the Comanche a Jeep vehicle?
A: Yes, the CX-9 is made by Mazda.
A: Yes, the Axys is made by Polaris.

Q: Does Absolute Trailer Sales make a vehicle called the Absolute Trailer Sales?
A: Yes, the EV2 is made by Alset.
Subaru makes the following models: Ascent, Loyale, GL-10, Impreza, BRZ, GLF, Trailseeker, DL, Brat, Standard, Legacy, B9 Tribeca, WRX, Baja, Solterra, Forester, XT, GL, XT6, Uncharted, SVX, Justy, Crosstrek, Outback, XV CrossTrek, RX.

A: The A-1 Truck Repair Trailer is made by A-1 Truck Repair.


A: Yes, the Aberdeen Power Group is made by Aberdeen Power Group.


Q: Who makes the P - Series?
A: The 5 Starr Trailer Company, Inc is made by 5 Starr Trailer Company, Inc.


Q: Is the Action Enterprises & Fabrication a Action Enterprises & Fabrication vehicle?

Abba Trailers Llc makes the following model: Abba Trailers LLC.


Q: Who makes the Mini Indy?
Ahoy! Houseboats And Fishhouses makes the following model: Ahoy! Houseboats and Fishhouses.

Q: Who makes the Aeroswint Trailers?
Q: What models does Aero Fiberglass Company make?
Q: Who makes the California Roadster?


Q: What models does Amaron Trailers make?
A: The S40 is made by Volvo.


A: The America's Best Cargo is made by America'S Best Cargo.



A: Alfa Romeo makes many models including the Giulia (952), Milano, 4C, 8C Competizione Spider, Tonale, Stelvio, Spider, and GTV6.

Q: What models does Abs make?

A: Yes, the Aventador is made by Lamborghini.

Q: Who makes the Brute Force 450?
A: Ahoy! Houseboats And Fishhouses makes the Ahoy! Houseboats and Fishhouses.




A: Yes, Ag Industrial, Inc makes the AG Industrial, Inc.



A: Yes, the Tonale is made by Alfa Romeo.


A: The Accelerate is made by Accelerate.
Q: Is the 58th Street Customs a 58Th Street Customs vehicle?
Q: Is the Allegheny Trailers a Allegheny Trailers vehicle?


A: Yes, American Bos Corp makes the American Bos Corp.
Q: Does Abd Equipment & Parts Llc make a vehicle called the ABD EQUIPMENT & PARTS LLC?

Q: Is the I35 a Infiniti vehicle?
A: Yes, the Absolute Performance is made by Abs.

A: Yes, the DECON is made by Advanced Containment Systems, Inc.
A: Yes, Alameda Trailer Sales makes the Alameda Trailer Sales.

Q: Is the XJ8 a Jaguar vehicle?

Q: Does Advanced Boat make a vehicle called the ADVANCED BOAT?

Q: Who makes the Alpine Industrial, LLC?
A: Yes, Airy makes the AIRY.
A: Allard Motor Works makes the J2X.

Q: Who makes the T-Sport?
Q: What models does 2-G Trailer Co Llc make?
A: Yes, the Accelerated Media Technologies is made by Accelerated Media Technologies.
A: Yes, American Electric Vehicle Company, Llc makes the Multipurpose.
Q: Does Amazing Trailers make a vehicle called the Amazing Trailers?
A: Yes, Acela, Inc makes the ACELA, INC.
A: The Ascape is made by Aliner.

A: Yes, the Aerovault is made by Aerovault.
A: The ABD EQUIPMENT & PARTS LLC is made by Abd Equipment & Parts Llc.
Q: Does 1St Choice Manufacturing Inc make a vehicle called the 1ST CHOICE MANUFACTURING INC?
A: Yes, the Altec Industries, Inc. is made by Altec.

Q: What models does Lucid make?

A: Yes, the 750SS is made by Ducati.
4 Boss makes the following model: 4 Boss.
A: Yes, 5 Starr Trailer Company, Inc makes the 5 Starr Trailer Company, Inc.
Q: What models does Alien make?
A: Yes, the Range Rover Evoque is made by Land Rover.



A: The Aluminx Trailer is made by Aluminx.

Q: Does American Airboat Corporation make a vehicle called the American Airboat Corporation?
A: Yes, the Altra is made by Nissan.
Q: Who makes the Sprinter?


A: Yes, the AEP North America is made by Aep North America.

Adirondack Kabins, Llc makes the following model: ADIRONDACK KABINS, LLC.
Q: Does All American Big Twin make a vehicle called the All American Big Twin?
A: Yes, 4L Trailers makes the 4L Trailers.
A: Yes, the All Star Trailers is made by All Star Trailers.
A: Yes, the Mirai is made by Toyota.
Q: Is the ACES CHOPPERWORKS a Aces Chopperworks vehicle?
A: Yes, the ALPINE WELDING & FABRICATION INC TRAILER is made by Alpine.
A: Yes, A & B Industries makes the A & B INDUSTRIES TRAILER.
Q: Is the Malta Dynamics a Alta vehicle?

A: Yes, Adly makes the RT.
A: The Multipurpose is made by American Electric Vehicle Company, Llc.

A: American Electronic Sign Co makes the Flatbed Mount, Utility Mount/Bed, and Mast Mount.


A: Ambers makes the Ambers.
Q: Does Alumituff Manufacturing make a vehicle called the Alumituff Manufacturing?


Q: Does Almar Manufacturing make a vehicle called the ALMAR MANUFACTURING?
Q: What models does Audi make?
A: The Daytona 675 R is made by Triumph.

Q: Who makes the ADU 100?
A: Yes, the Model G is made by Ac Customs.
Q: Is the CACL a Volvo vehicle?


A: Yes, the Flying Spur is made by Rolls-Royce.

A: Yes, Mini makes the Los Lobos Mini Choppers, LLC.

A: The Genesis is made by International.

A: Yes, Allison Dump Bodies & Trailers makes the ALLISON DUMP BODIES & TRAILERS.
Q: Is the 1939 Roadster a America Ev vehicle?
A: The 5JS Welding is made by 5Js Welding.
Q: Is the T-Sport a Acg vehicle?
A: Yes, the AL90DB is made by Aluminum Model.
A: The Sport/Touring is made by Alien.
A: Yes, Aar Welding makes the AAR Welding.

Q: Is the A1 FOOD TRUCK DEPOT LLC a A1 Food Truck Depot Llc vehicle?




Q: Who makes the AlumaIce?
A: Yes, the All Seasons Manufacturing is made by All Seasons Manufacturing.
A: The CV (Granite) is made by Mack.
Accelerated Tanks And Trailers makes the following model: Accelerated Tanks and Trailers.

A: The Defender is made by Land Rover.
Q: Who makes the Cumberland Adventure Trailers, LLC?
A: Yes, the Coupe is made by Audi.

Absolute Concepts makes the following model: Absolute Concepts.
A: The Aberdeen Power Group is made by Aberdeen Power Group.

A: Yes, the 8C Competizione Spider is made by Alfa Romeo.
Q: Who makes the Cab Over Engine HT?


Q: What models does Jeep make?
Q: Who makes the Advantage Customs?
A: The 8C Competizione Spider is made by Alfa Romeo.
A: Aluma Tower Company makes the Aluma Tower Company.
A: The T606 is made by Abu.
A: Action Equipment makes the Action Equipment.


Ambers makes the following model: Ambers.
Q: Does John Deere make a vehicle called the LB/Bus?




A: A & W Trailor Manufacture makes the A & W TRAILOR MANUFACTURE.

Q: What models does Harley-Davidson make?

A: Aero Teardrops, Llc makes the Aero Teardrops, LLC.


Q: Who makes the Alliance North America, Inc?
A: The NSX is made by Acura.
Q: Is the Street Glide Special a Harley-Davidson vehicle?

A: The Alaska Frontier Fabrication LLC is made by Alaska Frontier Fabrication Llc.

A: Yes, the Desmo 450 MX is made by Ducati.
A: Yes, Accelerated Tanks And Trailers makes the Accelerated Tanks and Trailers.
Q: Is the A Bar K Trailers a A Bar K Trailers vehicle?
A & W Trailor Manufacture makes the following model: A & W TRAILOR MANUFACTURE.
A: Amaron Trailers makes the Amaron Trailers.

Q: Does 2-G Trailer Co Llc make a vehicle called the 2-G Trailer Co LLC?





A: Yes, the Biturbo is made by Maserati.

Q: Who makes the 1932 California Roadster?
A: The CVO Dyna Wide Glide 2 is made by Harley-Davidson.


Q: What models does Mercedes-Benz make?
Q: Is the Youth Aeon a Polaris vehicle?
A: Abu makes many models including the ABU Trailer, T806, T702, Classic Articulated, T606, LFS, Vistabule, and LFS Artic.

Q: Is the ALC Manufacturing a Alc Manufacturing vehicle?

A: Alloy Custom Products makes the Alloy Custom Products.
Q: Who makes the Euro Edition?



Ahgo Food Trailers makes the following model: AHGO FOOD TRAILERS.
A: The E-450 is made by Ford.

Q: Who makes the Other?
All State makes the following model: ALL STATE.
A: The Activity Trailer is made by Activity Trailer.

A: Yes, the ALLURE TRAILERS is made by Allure Trailers.
Q: What models does 4 Wide make?

Q: Is the RT a Adly vehicle?
A: Yes, the ABC Manufacturing is made by Abc Manufacturing.
Q: Who makes the B5TL?

A: The 718 Spyder is made by Porsche.
Advanced Boat makes the following models: ADVANCED BOAT, ADVANCED BOAT TRAILERS, INC..

A: Yes, Gmc makes the CACL.
A: Yes, the ML 1000 Portable Light Tower is made by Allmand Brothers.

Q: Is the Alummikon Trailers a Alummikon Trailers vehicle?
4L Trailers makes the following model: 4L Trailers.
Q: Who makes the M37?
Q: Does Alta make a vehicle called the REDSHIFT?
Q: Is the Diablo a Lamborghini vehicle?
A: Yes, the A & L TRAILERS is made by A & L Trailers.


Q: Who makes the WABTEC CORPORATION?

A: Yes, the C5 Series is made by Kenworth.
Q: What models does Accelerated Media Technologies make?

A: The Flying Spur is made by Bentley.
Q: What models does Alfred Industries make?

A: Yes, the Advanced Customs & Conversions is made by Advanced Customs & Conversions.

Q: Is the AA Muffler and Welding LLC a Aa Muffler And Welding vehicle?
A: Yes, the ADVANCED BOAT is made by Advanced Boat.
Q: What models does Ac Customs make?
Q: Who makes the Full Function Vehicle (FFV)?

A: The MC/RV is made by John Deere.
Q: Is the Admiral Drive Systems a Admiral Drive Systems vehicle?

A: The Advanced Customs & Conversions is made by Advanced Customs & Conversions.

A: The VT750 (Shadow Ace 750) is made by Honda.
A: Yes, the ALL-IN-ONE Products is made by All-In-One Products.




A: Yes, Alset makes the EV6L.
A: Yes, the Truck is made by American Electric Vehicle Company, Llc.


A: The Miller is made by Mini.


Q: What models does Activity Trailer make?
Q: Who makes the 4L Trailers?

A: Yes, Amc makes the Jamco South Trailers Inc.

A: Aluminx makes the Aluminx Trailer.
A: The TRX350FE (FourTrax Rancher) is made by Honda.

A: Yes, the YZ450F is made by Yamaha.
Q: Who makes the CZ6AR?
Q: Is the Signature Series a American Hawg Choppers Inc vehicle?
Q: Is the MT 55G Front Gasoline Engine Walk in Van Chassis a Freightliner vehicle?
Q: Who makes the VZR1800L/VZR1800ZL?
A: Yes, 4 Wide makes the 4 Wide.

A: Yes, Action Trailers makes the Action Trailers.


A: Yes, A2Z makes the A2Z.
A: Acg makes many models including the 39 Roadster, California Roadster, T-Sport, Other, Full Function Vehicle (FFV), Golf Cart, Hummer H3, and Bremach.


Q: Is the ACcustomX a Accustomx vehicle?
Q: Is the SC a Lexus vehicle?

A: The American Best Corporation is made by American Best Corporation.

A: Yes, the Escalade ESV is made by Cadillac.
Q: Is the Previa a Toyota vehicle?
Q: Who makes the Turtleback Adventure LLC?
Q: Who makes the MC/RV?

Q: Is the 5280 Trailerworks a 5280 Trailerworks vehicle?

Aliner makes the following models: Aliner, Ascape.
A: Yes, Honda makes the TRX350FE (FourTrax Rancher).

A: The Biturbo is made by Maserati.


Ram makes the following models: Ramptek Trailers, YWR, ProMaster 1500, Pyramid Manufacturing Co. Trailer, EZWR, P38 Lightning, 307, 83, 3600, Chopper, Ramika Industries Trailer, Tramont Corporation, 1225U, Tram Trailer, John Ingram, Inc., 2235, Framar, FATT HOGG FRAMES, 612U, Urban, 3000, JSR, 83U, Brammo Street Bikes, Promaster City, ProMaster 2500, Scooter, Burkett's Autorama, 214, Holiday Rambler, FRAMTRAC MANUFACTURING CO. LTD, RAMSHORN WELDING, 2600, Paramount Custom Cycles, 512, 234, HX-3000, Tram Power Car, 925, 5500, Rampless Motorcycle Trailers, 206U, Ramirez Trailer, EnduraMax, JR RAMIRO, Tramont Manufacturing LLC, KTM Aluminum Frame, Best Lane Enterprises dba Ramp Free, CP80B, Ramsey Fabrication, 4000, 62U, RAMSA, 725, P63 King Cobra, Replica, HX-1000, 203, EZR, 288, LXR, 266, Faith, Metro Tram, 1000, 4500, Dual Sport, P40 Warhawk, B29 Super Fortress, EZTRJ, 2000, 2500, Ram Fabrication, Rambler, Protorype, RAMP AGE TRAILER CO., 52, YWVR, HX-2000, CP90B, B17 Bomber, Ram Transcorp, Ramp Champ, Cargo Van, P51 Mustang, ROAD TRAMPS MC, 166U, 625U, KTM Steel Frame, 3500, Robert Allen Mowery Ramco LLC, SCHRAMM, INC., Rampless, Kramo Trailers, ProMaster 3500, TerraMarc Industries, PortAFrame, 3510, Ram Enterprises, LLC, P47 Thunderbird, NEXGEN FRAMING SYSTEM, LLC, Touring, Easton Custom L.L.C, 835, 825U, WVR, Cruiser, CP102B, 1500.
Q: Does After-Market Specialties make a vehicle called the AFTER-MARKET SPECIALTIES?
A: The 360 Custom Trailers is made by 360 Custom Trailers.


Q: Who makes the Mark LT?
Q: What models does Adu 200 make?
Q: Does Afc Company make a vehicle called the AFC Company?
A: The SALON is made by Chrysler.


A: Yes, Accu-Weld Truck Body & Trailer Inc makes the Accu-Weld Truck Body & Trailer Inc.
Q: Is the Eight Passenger a Yamaha vehicle?
Q: Is the BOBBER a Aero Precision Metal Works Llc vehicle?
A: The American Airport Support & Rescue Systems is made by American Airport Support & Rescue Systems.

A: Yes, the ABU Trailer is made by Abu.
Q: Is the 55 Grills a 55 Grills vehicle?
A & A Manufacturing makes the following model: A & A Manufacturing.
A: Alct makes the ALCT.
Q: Who makes the Sportage?
Q: Is the A & D Company a A & D Company vehicle?

Q: Is the Alcom LLC a Alcom Llc vehicle?

Q: Who makes the Truck?

Q: Who makes the Sidekick?

Q: Who makes the Concorde/LHS?
Q: Does Allianz Sweeper Company make a vehicle called the Vanguard?
A: Yes, the PORTABLE CEDAR CABINS is made by Abi.
A: A1 Cycles makes the A1 Cycles.
A: The 300ACT, 400ACT, 500ACT, 600ACT, SACT is made by Allbetter.
Q: Is the Golf a Aero Motors vehicle?
A: Adrian Homes makes the Adrian Homes.
A: Yes, Abp Trailers makes the ABP Trailers.
Q: Does Abi make a vehicle called the LIBERTY CABINS?

A: A To Z Auto makes the A to Z Auto.

Advanced Trailer Systems makes the following model: Enclosed/Unenclosed.
Q: Who makes the Action Equipment?


Aero Motorsports makes the following models: DIO, ZX5.

A: Al-Assri makes the Al-Assri.
Q: Who makes the Signature Series?
Q: What models does Advantage Terrafab, Llc make?
A: The GL-10 is made by Subaru.
A: The MT 55G Front Gasoline Engine Walk in Van Chassis is made by Freightliner.
Q: Is the Pace Trailers a Ace Trailers vehicle?

A: Yes, the Other is made by Acg.
A: Yes, Ram makes the Ramptek Trailers.


A: Aero Flite makes the Aero Flite.



Q: Does Freightliner make a vehicle called the FS 65 Chassis?
A: The EV2000 is made by Air Easy Llc Dba Aventura-X.


Q: Is the Funeral Coach a Cadillac vehicle?
Q: What models does All American Manufacturing Llc make?


Q: What models does Amazing Trailers make?


Q: Who makes the RR01216?


Q: Who makes the ADVANCED BOAT?
Q: Is the Cab Over Engine HT a Volvo vehicle?

Q: Who makes the GIBRALTAR?

Q: Who makes the Alcan Traveler Inc.?
Q: Does Advanced Striping Equipment make a vehicle called the Advanced Striping Equipment?
Q: What models does Alaska Frontier Fabrication Llc make?
A: The Adirondack White Pine Cabins is made by Adirondack White Pine Cabins.

A: Yes, A Bar K Trailers makes the A Bar K Trailers.

Q: What models does Ahgo Food Trailers make?
Q: Does 79Bike make a vehicle called the Falcon?
Q: Is the Admiral Trailers a Admiral Trailers vehicle?
A: Alc Manufacturing makes the ALC Manufacturing.

Q: Does Adoc make a vehicle called the ADOC?
A: Adagio Collections Llc makes the Adagio Collections LLC.
Aapex Trailers Inc makes the following model: Aapex Trailers Inc.
Alko makes the following models: 1056, REBEL 400, SV800, RR01216, R02620T, 1517CTP, R01315TP, 307, S01317RB, REBEL 650, 1054, 83, 1517, RR0916, RR0915, S01315RB, R01517, SUPER 84, 1225U, REB 1215, 2235, 28-3, 612U, 83U, REB 1214, RR01214, REBEL 715, R01215, 214, ALKO, 224, 317, S01315R0, SUPER 90, REBEL 716, 1516VTP, RR01215, 93, REB 1015, 234, 1816VTP, 925, R02018TP, REB 1014, REBEL 915, REBEL 9, S01516RB, 206U, REBEL 11, Alkota Cleaning Systems, Inc., 1517TP, SV 3400, REBEL 800, UT-1046, RR0914, REB 1016, S02418RB, 62U, 1256, SV 2500, S01518R0, R02017TP, REBEL 916, 2320VTP, 246, 203, 288, 20-1, 1516V, R01516, S01916RB, C6-900, S01317R0, SV 2600, T4220VTP, SV1900, C6-1200, REBEL 714, SUPER 8, R04220T, R01517TP, DV1612, 1515, HS 650, SV 4000, R01516TP, 1817TP, R02820T, S03420RB, UTW-1246, SV 650, 166U, 625U, S01518RB, R01817TP, REBEL 914, R03520T, 82U, 3510, 835, UT-1246, 800, 825U, UTW-1046, S01516R0, 1215, REB 1216, R02418TP, R02618T.
A: The ADVANCED FIELD SERVICES, LLC is made by Advanced Field Services, Llc.
Q: What models does Alley Rat Custom Cycles Llc make?
All Day Lawn makes the following model: All Day Lawn.
A: The All Day Lawn is made by All Day Lawn.

A: Yes, the Altitude Teardrop is made by Altitude Teardrop.

A: The 7 ENERGY is made by 7 Energy.

A: Yes, the Sport is made by Activev Llc.



A: The Fabtech is made by Abt.

A: Yes, the ABI Caravans Ltd is made by Abi Caravans Ltd.
Q: Does A-1 Truck Repair make a vehicle called the A-1 Truck Repair Trailer?
A: Yes, the 36 FEET LLC is made by 36 Feet Llc.
Q: Who makes the Niro?
Q: Who makes the Skylark?

A: Yes, the ALLISON DUMP BODIES & TRAILERS is made by Allison Dump Bodies & Trailers.
A: The 500X is made by Fiat.

Q: Is the Aleman a Aleman vehicle?
A: Yes, the A Trinity Trailer is made by A Trinity Trailer.

Alpha Products International makes the following models: XU3000, XM3500, XM2600, XLSV 4500, XM3100, XLSV 4300, XM3150, XM5000, XLSV 3500, XM2500, XM2300, XLSV 6000, XM2100, XLSV 4000, XLSV 4400, XM4500, XLSV 4100, XM3000, XM2200, XLSV 4200, XLSV 3000, XM3300, XLSV 6500, XLSV 5000, XLSV 5500, XM3600, XM3200, XM4000, XM2400.
Q: What models does Al-Assri make?

A: Yes, 36 Feet Llc makes the 36 FEET LLC.


A: The MX10 is made by Alien Atv.

Q: Does 801 Trailer Manufacturing make a vehicle called the 801 Trailer Manufacturing?
A: Yes, Alumaice makes the AlumaIce.


A: The Accu-Weld Truck Body & Trailer Inc is made by Accu-Weld Truck Body & Trailer Inc.
A: The CX (Vision) is made by Mack.
A: Yes, the All Steel Trailer, LLC is made by All Steel Trailer, Llc.

Q: Does Allen'S make a vehicle called the ALLEN'S MFG INC.?
A: Yes, the Alummikon Trailers is made by Alummikon Trailers.
A: Yes, the Advanced Directional Drilling Services Trailer is made by Advanced Directional Drilling Services.

A: The EV4L is made by Alset.



Q: What models does Allison Dump Bodies & Trailers make?
All Pro Cycles makes the following model: All Pro Cycles.
Q: Is the Ace of Spades a Ace Of Spades vehicle?


A: The Alumax Trailers is made by Alumax Trailers.
Q: Who makes the Allroad ORV?
Q: Who makes the Model G?
A: The ACP TRAILERS is made by Acp Trailers.



Q: Who makes the FABTECH, LLC?
A: Yes, the Acme Trailer Works is made by Acme.



A: Yes, 1St Choice Manufacturing Inc makes the 1ST CHOICE MANUFACTURING INC.
A: The HR4 is made by 3Pluscoco.
A: Absolute Performance makes the Absolute Performance.
Aim Trailers makes the following model: AIM Trailers.

Q: Is the Euro Edition a Aas vehicle?
A: Yes, the Defender is made by Land Rover.
Alexander Dennis Limited makes the following models: Enviro 500 Superlo EV, Enviro 500 EV, Enviro 500, Enviro 500 Superlo, Enviro 200, Enviro 400.


Q: What models does Alleykat Kustoms Of Arizona make?
A: Yes, the Enviro 500 EV is made by Alexander Dennis Limited.

Q: Who makes the AAA Marine?
Q: What models does Alias make?

A: Audi makes many models including the 4000, A6, RS 6, Coupe, 90, 100, TT RS, and S6.
Q: Is the Ahoy! Houseboats and Fishhouses a Ahoy! Houseboats And Fishhouses vehicle?
A: The INDIRECT FIRED HEATER is made by Allmand Brothers.


Adm Manufacturing makes the following model: ADM MANUFACTURING.
A: Yes, the AIRLITE TRAILERS, LLC is made by Airlite Trailers, Llc.

Q: Does Aberdeen Power Group make a vehicle called the Aberdeen Power Group?
Q: Who makes the ALMAR MANUFACTURING?
Q: Is the ABD EQUIPMENT & PARTS LLC a Abd Equipment & Parts Llc vehicle?
Q: Is the Acme Group a Acme Group vehicle?

Q: Who makes the American Airport Support & Rescue Systems?
Q: What models does Mazda make?
A: The AirBurners is made by Airburners.
Adventure Sports Products, Inc makes the following model: Adventure Sports Products, Inc Trailer.

Q: Who makes the 5JS Welding?
Q: Does Alliance North America, Inc make a vehicle called the Alliance North America, Inc?

American Hauler makes the following model: American Hauler.

A: The Airtronics Metal Products is made by Airtronics Metal Products.

Q: Who makes the Silver Spirit?
A: Yes, the Ascape is made by Aliner.


Q: What models does A & F Trailer Mfg Inc make?

A: Yes, the Ace Trailers is made by Ace Trailers.
Q: Is the Beamco a Amc vehicle?
Advanced Trailer Solutions makes the following model: Advance Trailer Solutions Inc..
A: Yes, the AAR Welding is made by Aar Welding.



Am General makes the following model: MV-1.


A: The Pacesetter Boat is made by Ace.

Q: Who makes the Vanguard?
Audi makes the following models: 4000, A6, RS 6, Coupe, 90, 100, TT RS, S6, V8, SQ6, S e-tron GT, Q6, S5, A7, RS 3, A6 allroad, Q5 e, allroad, RS 5, A3, S4, A5, Q5, A4 allroad, Cabriolet, S7, RS 4, e-tron, A4, 5000, Q3, A8, A8 L, RS 6 Avant, Q7, Q8, RS e-tron GT, A8 L e, R8, 200, SQ5, TT, e-tron Sportback, Q4, TTS, A8 e, e-tron GT, S3, RS 7, RS Q8, SQ8, A7 e, 80, S8, SQ7.
Q: Who makes the ES?

Q: What models does Abi Caravans Ltd make?
A: Yes, the Carolina Trikes & Minis is made by Mini.
A: The Voyager is made by Chrysler.
Q: Does Mazda make a vehicle called the 929?
Q: Who makes the Accelerated Speed Dynamics, Inc?
A1 Cycles makes the following model: A1 Cycles.


Ac Customs makes the following models: Model I, Model G, Model H, Redwing, Model J, Model B, Model L, Model D, Model C, Model K, Model E, Model A, Model F.
Q: Is the NF2AA a International vehicle?

A: Yes, the XC Raised Rail Rear Engine Motor Home Chassis is made by Freightliner.

A: Alley Rat Custom Cycles Llc makes the Alley Rat Custom Cycles LLC.
Q: Is the Touring a Ace Mfg vehicle?
Q: Who makes the AFTER-MARKET SPECIALTIES?
Q: Who makes the 62DNC Trailer?


A: Advance Mechanical Service makes the Advance Mechanical Service.
Amen Chassis Works makes the following model: AMEN CHASSIS WORKS.

A: Advance Metal Fabrication And Machine makes the Advanced Metal Fabrication and Machine, Inc..
Agb makes the following model: AGB.




Q: Who makes the YZ250F?




Q: Who makes the Ascape?
A: Ag Shield Manufacturing makes the AG Shield Manufacturing.
Q: Is the Miller a Mini vehicle?

Q: Who makes the Utility?



Q: Is the SXS1000M (Pioneer 1000) a Honda vehicle?
Q: Who makes the All Aluminum Structure?

A: Allbetter makes the Allbetter, and 300ACT, 400ACT, 500ACT, 600ACT, SACT.
Q: What models does 4 Boss make?
Q: Is the ALL AMERICAN CUSTOM a All American Custom vehicle?
818 makes the following model: 818.


Q: Is the Allroad ORV a Allroad vehicle?
Alley Rat Custom Cycles Llc makes the following model: Alley Rat Custom Cycles LLC.
A: Yes, the ALL AMERICAN CUSTOM is made by All American Custom.
A: Yes, the Motor Home is made by Aci.

A: The Accelerated Media Technologies is made by Accelerate.


A: Yes, All Pro Cycles makes the All Pro Cycles.
A: Yes, Academi Training Center makes the Academi Training Center.
A: Yes, Allen'S makes the ALLEN'S MFG INC..


A: Yes, Subaru makes the Ascent.



A: Yes, the Allvan Corporation is made by Allvan Corporation.
Q: What models does Aas make?
A: Yes, Aero Teardrops, Llc makes the Aero Teardrops, LLC.
A: Yes, the Ace Motorcycle is made by Ace Motorcycle.
A: Yes, Aep North America makes the AEP North America.

A: Acs makes the Amacsa, and ACS.
Q: Who makes the Armada?
Q: Who makes the 6PS?

Q: Is the Flying Spur a Rolls-Royce vehicle?



Q: Who makes the Model J?

Q: What models does Alpacamper make?



A: Yes, Adirondack Kabins, Llc makes the ADIRONDACK KABINS, LLC.

Q: Who makes the Albert Lea?
A: Academi Training Center makes the Academi Training Center.

Q: Is the AFTER-MARKET SPECIALTIES a After-Market Specialties vehicle?
Q: Is the Allied Trailer Works (ATW) a Allied Trailer Works (Atw) vehicle?

A: The NC09 is made by Alien Atv.
Q: Does Advantage Customs make a vehicle called the Advantage Customs?
Q: Who makes the ZX5?

Q: Is the Acme Group a Acme vehicle?
Q: Who makes the ADS Manufacturing?
A: Yes, Accustomx makes the ACcustomX.

Mack makes the following models: CV (Granite), CX (Vision), CT (Granite), LR, RW, DM, CF, CHN, CTP (Granite), Macklin Welding, F, CXU (Pinnacle), DMM, DMC, WL, CHU (Pinnacle), RD, MRU (TerraPro), TD (Titan), FDM, Pioneer, MR, MCE, RL, FM, REMACKEL TRAILERS, RB, RWL, Terrapro, LE, Cowl-Chassis, MH, MD, CXP (Pinnacle), CXN (Vision), WS, RS, Anthem, GU (Granite), LEU (TerraPro), RM, DML, FR1, RWS, CH, MRE, CS, U, Mackey Trailers, Granite, MC, Pinnacle, MACKS METAL FAB, MS, MV (Freedom), LC, R, CL, Smack Trailers, LLC.
A: Yes, the A Smith GT Bentley is made by A Smith Gt Bentley.

A: Yes, the T6 Series is made by Kenworth.


A: Abc Enterprises makes the ABC Enterprises.



Q: What models does Activev Llc make?


Adly makes the following models: RT, Bulleye, GTC, Thunderbike, TB, SS, PT, FX, Jet, Fox, WB, CAT, GTS, GTA, ATV, Panther, Phoenix, FT, JET, SF, PP, FP.
Q: Does Abp Trailers make a vehicle called the ABP Trailers?
A: The RAINBOW is made by Aerotek.
A: Yes, the A & D Company is made by A & D Company.
Admw makes the following model: ADMW.




A: The TSX is made by Acura.
Q: Is the ADDAX Overland LLC a Addax Overland Llc vehicle?
A: The Alvey Welding LLC is made by Alvey Welding Llc.
A: Alpacamper makes the ALPACAMPER.

Bmw makes the following models: M3, 325iC, F 900, R 1200 C, 540d, 750Lxi, Alpina B7, ActiveHybrid 5, 440i, S 1000 XR, M 1000 RR, 325/325eS, 428i, R 80 ST, M235, R 100 RT, M 1000 R, F 850 GS, 540i, 740Li, R 1150 GS, K 1300 GT, S 1000 R, 740iL, K75, F 800 R, 745e, 545i, R 1300 RS, F 800 ST, 540iA, 328iC, i8, G 310 R, F 900 R, F 650 GS, M4, 650xi, K100, 750i, B7, C Evolution, X6, F 900 GS, M 1000, M235i, K 100 RS, 528e, 335d, R 80 RT, K 1600 B, 325iS, 318i, F 800 GS, 750xi, Alpina B7, 328d, 330Ci, Alpina, 760i, 528i, 633 csi, 645Ci, 645i, 735iL, Z4, R 18 B, 330e, R 1200 CL, 525iA, 330xi, 533i, 230i, 535d, M440i, B7, R 1300 R, 128i, R 1250 R, F 900 XR, R 12, R 100 CS, C 400 GT, L7, R 1250 RT, R 1250 GS, R 1200 S, R nineT, F 650, 228i, F 900 GS-P, R 18 Classic, CE 02, ActiveHybrid 3, 320i, 323iC, R 18 Roctane, R 1100 S, R 100 R, R 100 RS, i7, X5, 530xi, F 750 GS, K1, 750Li, Alpina B7, M2, 328Ci, M760i, M8, 328xi, 740e, R 100 GS, R 80 GS, 335xi, M760Li, R 12 G/S, R 1200 GS, 735i, R 1250 RS, R 80, X7, 760Li, 535xi, X3, 530iA, G 310 GS, R 1100 GS, 850CSi, F 800 S, K75RT, 318ti, X2, C 650, R 1250 GS Adventure, 535i/535is, K 100 LT, K 1200 R, 435i, R 1200 ST, K 1600 GT, G 650, 550e, F 900 GS Adventure, G 650 GS, Z8, 650i, Alpina B6, 525i, K 1300 R, 750Lxi, K 1600 GTL, 730i, 325i/325is, HP4, 650i, B6, XM, R 18 Transcontinental, 228, HP2, 535i, K 1200 LT, 640i, CE 04, F 700 GS, 528xi, 525xi, 330i, K75S, R 100, R 1200 RS, i4, iX, C 600, R 850 R, 325xi, K 100 RT, R 1150 RS, 640xi, R 1300 GS Adventure, 325/325e, 135i, i5, 328i, R 65, 750Li, 530e, R 1200 RT, 750iL, X4, M5, ActiveE, 318iS, 840Ci, 850Ci, i3, 325Ci, Z3, R 18, K 1200 S, 325i, 530i, R 1100 RS, R 100 GSPD, M850i, R 65 LS, 750e, K 1100 RS, M550i, Alpina B8, R 1300 RT, 840i, 745Le, F 800 GT, R 12 nineT, 550i, R 1200 R, ActiveHybrid 7, C 650 GT, 733i, F 650 S, 740i, R 1100 R, K 1300 S, 650i, F 650 CS, X1, 318iC, 340i, 335, 850i, G 450 X, 745i, M340i, 1M, R 1100 RT, 750i, M240i, M 1000 XR, R 1300 GS, R 1150 RT, 323i, K 1200 RS, 635CSi, 430i, 750i, Alpina B7, R 900 RT, M3Ci, 750xi, M6, 745Li, 323is, 524td, K 1100 LT, R 1150 R, 335i, 335is, K 1200 GT, 325ix, 328iS, C 400 X, S 1000 RR.
A: The Pulse is made by Activev Llc.
Q: Who makes the Paradigm?

Q: Is the All Boat Manufacturing a All Boat Manufacturing vehicle?
A: Aero makes many models including the Aerovault, Utility, 1100i, 50/100, BOBBER, RPM Aerovault, AEROPUP Trailers LLC, and Luxury Edition.
A & L Smokers makes the following model: A & L Smokers.
Q: Who makes the GX?
A: Yes, the Pacesetter Boat is made by Ace.


A: The F-PACE is made by Jaguar.
Q: Who makes the Alameda Trailer Sales?
Q: What models does Alpha Boats Unlimited make?

A: Yes, the TL is made by Acura.
Q: Is the NC09 a 3Pluscoco vehicle?
A: Yes, the 3D Custom Aluminum is made by 3D Custom Aluminum.
A: Yes, the Jamco South Trailers Inc is made by Amc.

Q: Who makes the Accelerated Tanks and Trailers?
A: Kenworth makes many models including the K3 Series, T4 Series, T6 Series, C5 Series, T800, Other Off-Highway, 542, and T8 Series.
A: Yes, the Enviro 500 is made by Alexander Dennis Limited.
Q: Does Ability Metals make a vehicle called the Ability Metals?
A: Yes, Alumi Tech makes the Alumi Tech.

Q: Is the All Pro Cycles a All Pro Cycles vehicle?
All Fab Trailers makes the following model: All Fab Trailers.
A: The Thunderbike is made by Adly.
A: Yes, Aliner makes the Aliner.
A: The Adrian Homes is made by Adrian Homes.
A: The 718 Boxster is made by Porsche.
Kawasaki makes the following models: KX250F, W230, KX85, MULE 2510, Brute Force 450, KT112, Zephyr 550, Standard Moped, ZL600 Eliminator, Ninja ZX-6R, KZ440, Ninja 600R, Ninja ZX-4R, MULE PRO-FX, KLX110R, KLX250SF, KX65, LX300E, Eliminator 600, ZX-7R, Ninja 900, Z e-1, GPZ 305, KZ750, Ninja 1000, KLR600, Z900RS, Prairie 300, Ninja ZX-14, ZRX 1100, Ninja 1100, ZX-12R, ZR1200-B1, Vulcan 900, KDX220R, Prairie 400, KZ650, KLX650R, KLX250, Z650RS, KX500, MULE 2520, KLX450R, KLX650, Ninja ZX-6, KFX400, KL250, LX300D, Vulcan 700, Utility, MULE 1000, Z900, ZX1002N, Eliminator 125, KFX80, Ninja 250R, ZX700, KZ1000, Ninja H2 SX, EN450, KX100, KDX200, KZ700, MULE 3010, KLX250R, MULE PRO-DXT, Ninja 7, KX450, Versys, KLX250S, Versys 1000, ZX-6RR, Z900RS CAFE, ZN1100, Ninja 300, Sports, Prairie 650, ZX-6R, Ninja 600, Z750S, Super Sports, KZ550, Vulcan 2000, KLX300SM, Vulcan 1500, Concours 14, MULE 600, Teryx4 750, KDX250, W650, Z125 PRO, KFX50, Versys-X 300, ZX750, Ninja ZX-12R, Z H2, KLX300R, Zephyr 1100, Mojave 250, LAKOTA, Ninja 500, Ninja 500R, KX125, KE100, KLX230, ZX750-F1, Vulcan 750, MULE 2500, Brute Force 300, MULE PRO-MX, ZX1000, KZ1100, KZ250, KLX400SR, KLX230R, Vulcan 88, ZN750, Bayou 250, KLX400R, MULE PRO-F, KLX140/KLX140R, KLR650, KX250, MULE PRO-DX, ZRX 1200R, ZN1300, MULE MX, KLX110, Ninja ZX-10RR, MULE 3020, Z7, Voyager XII, Ninja 1000SX, MULE 520, Super Sherpa, KX80, Ninja H2 R, Brute Force 650, KLR250, ZR-7, ZX-7RR, KFX90, KX112, KFX450R, Teryx4, EL250 Eliminator, MULE 550, Bayou 220, MULE SX, MULE PRO-FXT, MULE 4010, Ninja 1100SX, MULE PRO-FXR, KLX125, Ninja ZX-11, Eliminator, Prairie 700, Zephyr 750, LAKOTA SPORT, Z500, Ninja ZX-10R, ZR-7S, ZG1000, Vulcan 800, KZ305, Ninja H2, Versys 1100, Ninja 650R, ZR1000KL, KX60, ZL1000 Eliminator, KX252, KZ305 LTD, Concours, Bayou 300, Sports Utility, GPZ1100, KLX125L, ZX1002, Ninja ZX-14R, ZZR1200, Brute Force 750, Vulcan 1600, KDX50, Ninja 400, Z650, Kawasaki Utility Vehicle, Ridge, ZL900 Eliminator, Teryx, W800, KLX, KLX300, Touring, KLX110L, ZG1200, MULE 4000, MULE 610, Vulcan 500, LE650, MULE 3000, Ninja 650, Prairie 360, Police 1000, Z1000, KFX700, Z400, Ninja e-1, ER-6n, Vulcan S, Ninja ZX-9R, ZN700, Versys 650, Vulcan 1700, Teryx 750Fi, Z800, KZ305 CSR.
A: The AAA Tiny Home is made by Aaa Tiny Home.



A: Yes, the 41 Series is made by 41 Series.
A: Yes, the Model H is made by Ac Customs.

A: Yes, the Quattroporte is made by Maserati.
41 Series makes the following model: 41 Series.


A: Aluminator Trailers Llc makes the Aluminum.




Q: Is the Adam Trailers a Adam Trailers vehicle?


A: The Tonale is made by Alfa Romeo.
A: Yes, the Absolutely Wild Ranch is made by Absolutely Wild Ranch.
A: The California Roadster is made by Acg.
Q: Who makes the A-1 Custom Trailer aka Tow Master?
Q: What models does Ambers make?
A: Yes, the Sprinter is made by Freightliner.
A: Yes, Abi Caravans Ltd makes the ABI Caravans Ltd.
A: The 3D Custom Aluminum is made by 3D Custom Aluminum.
A: The Full Function Vehicle (FFV) is made by Acg.
3 Star Mfg Ltd makes the following model: 3 STAR MFG LTD.
Q: What models does American Hauler make?
A: Yes, Volvo makes the CACL.

A: The ADU 100 is made by Adu 100.

Q: What models does All Around Trailers make?

A: The Avenue is made by Alliance Rv.
Adrenaline makes the following model: Adrenaline.

A: Yes, Acme makes the Acme Group.

A: The Alpha Modified Systems is made by Alpha Modified Systems.
A: Yes, the All American Trailer Manufacturers is made by All American Trailer Manufacturers.


Q: Does Alko make a vehicle called the 1056?
A: The Alumituff Manufacturing is made by Alumituff Manufacturing.
Q: Does Accurate Cycle Engineering make a vehicle called the ACCURATE CYCLE ENGINEERING?

A: Yes, the Air is made by Lucid.
A: Yes, the American Farrier Systems LLC is made by American Farrier Systems Llc.

Acker-Built makes the following model: Acker-Built.

801 Trailer Manufacturing makes the following model: 801 Trailer Manufacturing.
Q: Is the Vanguard a Allianz Sweeper Company vehicle?


Q: Who makes the Recluse?


Q: What models does Aluminum Model make?

Allianz Sweeper Company makes the following model: Vanguard.



Q: What models does Advanced Fabricators Inc make?




A: The XM2600 is made by Alpha Products International.


Q: Who makes the YWR?
A: Yes, All Star Trailers Fabrication makes the ALL STAR TRAILERS FABRICATION.
A: Yes, the Model S is made by Tesla.
A: Yes, the ADVANCED BOAT TRAILERS, INC. is made by Advanced Boat.
Q: Is the Pacesetter Boat a Ace vehicle?
Q: Is the Advanced Metal Products, Inc a Advanced Metal Products, Inc vehicle?

Q: What models does Albert Lea make?
Q: Does Aluma Tower Company make a vehicle called the Aluma Tower Company?


A: Aldura makes the Aldura Trailer.

Q: Is the Patton a A & O vehicle?
A: The Aerovault is made by Aerovault.


A: Yes, the GX is made by Lexus.


Q: Is the MC/RV a John Deere vehicle?

All American Utilities Llc makes the following model: All American Utilities LLC .



A: The Model G is made by Ac Customs.
4M Farm & Trailer Sales makes the following model: 4M Farm & Trailer Sales.

A: The R 1200 C is made by Bmw.





Q: Is the 388 a Peterbilt vehicle?
A: 4 Star Fabrication makes the 4 Star Fabrication Trailer.
A: Yes, Alphahd Trailers makes the AlphaHD Trailers.
A: Yes, the The Basecamp is made by Addax Overland Llc.




A: The Allied Steel is made by Allied Steel.


A: Yes, the 321Trailers is made by 321Trailers.
A: Yes, the AIM Trailers is made by Aim Trailers.
A: The A & W TRAILOR MANUFACTURE is made by A & W Trailor Manufacture.
A: Altamont Technologies, Inc makes the ALTAMONT TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
Q: Does 17 Creek Enterprises make a vehicle called the 17 CREEK ENTERPRISES?

Q: What models does Aluminx make?


A: Yes, the Malta Dynamics is made by Alta.


Activev Llc makes the following models: Standard, Sport, Nexus, Pulse.



A: All In One Custom Fabrication & Design makes the ALL IN ONE CUSTOM FABRICATION & DESIGN.

A: Yes, the Luggage is made by Aero Fiberglass Company.
Q: Is the Advantage Trailers a Advantage Trailers vehicle?

A: The ALL STATE is made by All State.




Q: Does Absolutely Wild Ranch make a vehicle called the Absolutely Wild Ranch?
Q: Is the ALCC a Alcc vehicle?
Q: Is the Optiq a Cadillac vehicle?
A: Yes, the Low Speed Cargo is made by Advanced Ev.


Q: Who makes the Air Responder?
A: Yes, the MH3 is made by 3Pluscoco.


Q: What models does Aluminum Cargo Trailers Inc make?



Q: Who makes the All Boat Manufacturing?
Q: Is the KX250F a Kawasaki vehicle?
Q: What models does All World Trailers Llc make?
A: The GLK-Class is made by Mercedes-Benz.



Q: Who makes the Quattroporte?

A: The American Custom Coach is made by American Custom Coach.
A: Yes, Adventure Trailers makes the Lobo Adventure Trailers.
A: Yes, Ajax Tocco Magnethermic Corporation makes the AJAX TOCCO MAGNETHERMIC CORPORATION.
Q: Who makes the Huracan?
Q: Who makes the Enclosed/Unenclosed?
Q: What models does Ahoy! Houseboats And Fishhouses make?

Almar Manufacturing makes the following model: ALMAR MANUFACTURING.

A: The Carolina Trikes & Minis is made by Mini.

Q: Does Adagio Collections Llc make a vehicle called the Adagio Collections LLC?
A: Yes, Aluminum Cargo Trailers Inc makes the Aluminum Cargo Trailers Inc.
Q: Is the RCV a Rivian vehicle?

Q: What models does American Best Corporation make?
A: Yes, the KX85 is made by Kawasaki.

Q: Does 5M Trailers make a vehicle called the 5M Trailers?



Q: Does Advanced Metalcraft & Co make a vehicle called the Advanced Metalcraft & Co Trailer?
Q: Who makes the G37?

A: Yes, Aeropup Trailers Llc makes the AEROPUP Trailers LLC.



Q: What models does Accelerate make?

Q: Who makes the A & E Fabricators?
Q: Does 7 Energy make a vehicle called the 7 ENERGY?




Alphahd Trailers makes the following model: AlphaHD Trailers.


Q: Who makes the Allco Trailer Manufacturing?

Allbetter makes the following models: Allbetter, 300ACT, 400ACT, 500ACT, 600ACT, SACT.
Q: Is the ACE Metalworks a Ace Metalworks vehicle?

A: The Alley Rat Custom Cycles LLC is made by Alley Rat Custom Cycles Llc.
Adam Trailers makes the following model: Adam Trailers.
A: Yes, the 4L Trailers is made by 4L Trailers.
Q: Does Fiat make a vehicle called the Spider 2000?


A: Yes, the ADM MANUFACTURING is made by Adm Manufacturing.

A: The ACCURATE CYCLE ENGINEERING is made by Accurate Cycle Engineering.
All World Trailers Llc makes the following model: All World Trailers LLC.
A: Yes, Admiration Homes makes the ADMIRATION HOMES TRAILER.
A: Yes, A-1 Truck Repair makes the A-1 Truck Repair Trailer.
A: Yes, Aimhigh makes the AimHigh.
A: Allroad makes the Allroad ORV, and Allroad.
Q: Who makes the TL1000S?
Q: Who makes the T702?
A: Yes, the AHS Trailers is made by Ahs Trailers.

A: Yes, the Adirondack White Pine Cabins is made by Adirondack White Pine Cabins.

A: Hyundai makes many models including the Genesis, Palisade, Ioniq, Veloster N, Elantra GT, Ioniq 6 N, XG300, and Accent.
Q: Is the EV Luxe a America Ev vehicle?


A: The Envoy is made by Gmc.
Alpha Tank Builders makes the following model: Alpha Tank Builders.

Q: What models does American Carts make?



Accustomx makes the following model: ACcustomX.
1955 Custom Belair makes the following model: 1955 Custom Belair.
Q: Who makes the FXDR 114?




Q: Is the American Hauler a American Hauler vehicle?
A: Yes, the LC/RV is made by John Deere.

A: Yes, Adirondack Kottages makes the ADIRONDACK KOTTAGES.

A: The 6PL AAS is made by Alumacar.

Q: Is the The HandCart a A1 Food Truck Depot Llc vehicle?
A: Yes, the VB/BUS is made by John Deere.


Q: What models does Acme Group make?
Q: Does 5G Modular make a vehicle called the 5G Modular?
Q: Is the Sport a Ace Mfg vehicle?
Q: Does Alloy Custom Products make a vehicle called the Alloy Custom Products?

Aec Enterprises makes the following model: AEC Enterprises.
A: Yes, the S2C 106 Conventional Cab & Chassis is made by Freightliner.
A: The Valor is made by Alliance Rv.

A: The 280 Trailers is made by 280 Trailers.

Q: Does Ajax Tocco Magnethermic Corporation make a vehicle called the AJAX TOCCO MAGNETHERMIC CORPORATION?


Airy makes the following models: AIRY, Street Buggy.


A: Yes, the CACL is made by Volvo.

After-Market Specialties makes the following model: AFTER-MARKET SPECIALTIES.
A: Acela, Inc makes the ACELA, INC.
A: Ahs Trailers makes the AHS Trailers.
A: Ag Spray Equipment makes the Ag Spray Equipment,Inc., and Ag Spray Equipment.
A: Yes, the Sidekick is made by Suzuki.
Abt makes the following models: Abtec of Wisconsin, Inc., FABTECH, LLC, Fabtech, WABTEC CORPORATION, MARION FABTECH, INC, ABT.
A: Yes, the Allied Machine Inc Trailer is made by Allied Machine Inc.
A: Yes, the Sportage is made by Kia.
Q: Does Advanced Trailer Solutions make a vehicle called the Advance Trailer Solutions Inc.?
A: Yes, the LIBERTY CABINS is made by Abi.

Q: Who makes the Allen's?

A: Yes, the Van/Cargo is made by Alcan Traveler, Inc.

Q: Who makes the 2-G Trailer Co LLC?
Q: Does Cadillac make a vehicle called the Optiq?


Q: What models does Alpha Cargo Trailers Llc make?

A: The FXDR 114 is made by Harley-Davidson.
Q: Is the 6PS a Aluma vehicle?
A: Yes, #1 Alpine Customs makes the #1 ALPINE CUSTOMS.
Q: What models does Airburners make?
Q: Is the All Star Trailers a All Star Trailers vehicle?

Alfred Industries makes the following model: Alfred Industries.
A: Yes, 4 Star Fabrication makes the 4 Star Fabrication Trailer.
Q: Does Amaron Trailers make a vehicle called the Amaron Trailers?
A: Yes, Harley-Davidson makes the FXDR 114.
Q: Is the Almax Holding Limited Trailer a Almax Holding Limited vehicle?
A: The Van/Cargo is made by Alcan Traveler, Inc.
A: Yes, the Action Industrial Studio is made by Action Industrial Studio.
A: The Compass is made by Jeep.
Q: What models does Ag Shield Manufacturing make?
Q: What models does Abc Manufacturing make?
Q: Does All Fab Trailers make a vehicle called the All Fab Trailers?
Q: What models does All Good Equipment make?

A: Yes, the FM Aerovault is made by Aerovault.
Q: What models does Kawasaki make?

Aeroswint Trailers makes the following model: Aeroswint Trailers.
A: The 918 is made by Porsche.
Q: Is the AJAX TRAILERS a Ajax Trailers, Inc vehicle?
A: Yes, Acro Trailer Company makes the Acro Trailer Company.
Q: Is the A & V Trailers a A & V Trailers vehicle?

Q: Does All Star Trailers Fabrication make a vehicle called the ALL STAR TRAILERS FABRICATION?
Q: Is the Gravity a Lucid vehicle?

Q: Is the 90 a Audi vehicle?
A: Yes, American Airport Support & Rescue Systems makes the American Airport Support & Rescue Systems.
Q: Is the Ameri-Camp Trailer a Ameri-Camp vehicle?

A: Yes, the Genesis is made by International.
A: Yes, the AA Screen Supply is made by Aa Screen Supply.

Q: Does Aaa Marine make a vehicle called the AAA Marine?
Q: Does Abba Trailers Llc make a vehicle called the Abba Trailers LLC?
Q: What models does Absolutely Wild Ranch make?
Q: Is the 4PS a Aluma vehicle?
Q: Who makes the Ambers?
Q: What models does Toyota make?


A: Yes, Western Star makes the 5900.
Q: Who makes the ALTAMONT TECHNOLOGIES, INC?
A: 7X Offroad makes the 7X Offroad.
Q: Is the 900SS a Ducati vehicle?
A: Yes, the Soul is made by Kia.
A: Yes, the SB/BUS STYLE C is made by John Deere.

Q: Is the AEROPUP Trailers LLC a Aeropup Trailers Llc vehicle?
Q: Who makes the T606?







A: Freightliner makes many models including the FS 65 Chassis, XC Raised Rail Rear Engine Motor Home Chassis, Sprinter, S2C 106 Conventional Cab & Chassis, MT 55G Front Gasoline Engine Walk in Van Chassis, XBA  Arboc Rail Rear Engine Commercial Bus Chassis, XC-M Modular Rail Rear Engine Motor Home Chassis, and XC Rear Engine Motor Home Chassis GLIDER.

A: The NL 1000 Portable Light Tower is made by Allmand Brothers.


Q: Who makes the Desmo 450 MX?
Q: What models does All Star Solutions make?
A: The Keystone Kabins is made by Abi.
A: Cadillac makes many models including the Optiq, Escalade ESV, Funeral Coach, ELR, Lyriq, Cimarron, Escalade IQL, and Limousine.

Q: Who makes the ALL-IN-ONE Products?


A: Alloy makes many models including the Exoalloy LLC, Alloy Trailers, Cryogenic Trailer, GP300S, United Alloy, Inc., TG300 / TG300T, Tigara Grande 150, and GT2 160.
Q: Who makes the Alaska Extreme Trailer?

Q: Is the GSX-S1000GT/GSX-S1000GT+ a Suzuki vehicle?
Q: Is the Almighty Trailers LLC a Almighty Trailers Llc vehicle?

A: The YWR is made by Ram.
Q: Is the All Phase Trailer and Equipment a All Phase Trailer And Equipment vehicle?
Q: Is the Voyager a Chrysler vehicle?



Q: Is the Compass a Jeep vehicle?
Q: Is the New Range Rover a Land Rover vehicle?
A: Yes, 1955 Custom Belair makes the 1955 Custom Belair.
A: The Advanced Metal Fabrication and Machine, Inc. is made by Advance Metal Fabrication And Machine.
A: Yes, Advanced Customs & Conversions makes the Advanced Customs & Conversions.
Q: What models does Addco make?

Q: What models does Aerobilt Manufacturing make?
A: Yes, the 55 Grills is made by 55 Grills.

A: Yes, the Alpha Tank Builders is made by Alpha Tank Builders.

A: The Other is made by Acg.

Abp Trailers makes the following model: ABP Trailers.
Q: Is the Ace Trailers a Ace vehicle?

A: Yes, Abastecedora De Tractopartes Y Refacciones makes the ABASTECEDORA DE TRACTOPARTES Y REFACCIONES.
A: Yes, the Magna Van is made by Gmc.
A: Yes, Aj'S makes the AJ'S.

Q: Does Infiniti make a vehicle called the EX35?
A: Yes, the B01 is made by Alien Atv.


A: Yes, All American Utilities Llc makes the All American Utilities LLC .
A: Yes, the AimHigh is made by Aimhigh.
Q: Is the Acro Trailer Company a Acro Trailer Company vehicle?

Q: Is the All About Trailers a All About Trailers vehicle?

Q: Does Abastecedora De Tractopartes Y Refacciones make a vehicle called the ABASTECEDORA DE TRACTOPARTES Y REFACCIONES?


A: The XC Raised Rail Rear Engine Motor Home Chassis is made by Freightliner.
A: The AAA Marine is made by Aaa Marine.
Q: What models does 7 Energy make?
Q: Does Aldura make a vehicle called the Aldura Trailer?


A: Yes, the AAA Tiny Home is made by Aaa Tiny Home.

Q: Is the LeSabre a Buick vehicle?
Q: Does 4 X 4 Trailers Ltd make a vehicle called the 4 X 4 Trailers Ltd?
Q: Who makes the Gt Malan?
A: Alpha Tank Builders makes the Alpha Tank Builders.

Q: Is the AmeraTrail a Ameratrail vehicle?

Q: Does America'S Best Cargo make a vehicle called the America's Best Cargo?
A: Yes, Maserati makes the Ghibli.
Q: Is the Aero Build LLC a Aero Build Llc vehicle?
Q: Does Allco Trailer Manufacturing make a vehicle called the Allco Trailer Manufacturing?





Q: Who makes the Somerset?

A: The CACL is made by Gmc.


Q: What models does A & M Fabrications make?
Alc Manufacturing makes the following model: ALC Manufacturing.


A: The CX-50 is made by Mazda.
Q: Does Addco make a vehicle called the Addco?

Q: Does Action Signs And Billboards make a vehicle called the Action Signs and Billboards?
A: Yes, Action Signs And Billboards makes the Action Signs and Billboards.

Q: Does Adventure make a vehicle called the Adventure Sports Products, Inc Trailer?
A: Yes, the 718 Spyder is made by Porsche.
A: Yes, Aa Screen Supply makes the AA Screen Supply.
Q: Does 818 make a vehicle called the 818?
Q: Is the Chopper a All American Manufacturing Llc vehicle?
A: Yes, Advantage Trailers makes the Advantage Trailers.
A: Yes, the Vanguard is made by Allianz Sweeper Company.
A: Yes, Agazu makes the AGAZU.
A: The AAR Welding is made by Aar Welding.

A: All-In-One Products makes the ALL-IN-ONE Products.
Aerotek makes the following model: RAINBOW.
Q: Is the Soul a Kia vehicle?

Q: Does 3&1 Enterprises, Llc Dba Impact Trailers make a vehicle called the 3&1 Enterprises, LLC dba Impact Trailers?
Q: Does Admiral Drive Systems make a vehicle called the Admiral Drive Systems?


A: The LX is made by Lexus.

Q: Does Ace make a vehicle called the Ace?
Suzuki makes the following models: TL1000S, VZR1800L/VZR1800ZL, GSX-8T, GSX-S1000GT/GSX-S1000GT+, Sidekick, LT-A50, VS1400/VS1400GL, GSX650F, DL650AL, UZ125C, VZR1800/VZR1800Z/VZR1800N, GSX1300RRM2 / GSX1300RRZM2, Boulevard M90 (VZ1500L9), VZR1800/VZR1800Z, GSX-R1000AL, DR-Z400E, Moto-Cross, AN400A, JR80K, DR-Z50, LT-Z90L, RM-Z250, VL1500K, GSX600F/GSX600FT, GSF1200, AN650L, LT-F400FK, VL800L/VL800TL, LT-A500F, GS500E, VS800, GSF1200SK, LT-V700F, GSX1300RK, VZR1800BZL, LT-A450X, Hayabusa, VS800GL, GSX-S1000FAL7, SV650, SFV650L, GSF600S/GSF600ST, GSX1100G, GSX-R1100W, AN400 / AN400S, Mini-Leisure, SV650/SV650S/SV650SF, Leisure, DR-Z400, LT-F250K, LT-Z400L, DR-Z4S, DR-Z400S, LT-A400, X-90, GSX1300RAM0 (Hayabusa), VZ800/VZ800B/VZ800Z, GSX-R750, RM60K, GSX1300RL/GSX1300RZL, GSX1300RAL9 (Hayabusa), Boulevard M109R B.O.S.S.(VZR1800BZL8), GSF650S, DL1000, DL650XAL/DL650AAL/DL650AL, DR-Z125, GSX750F/GSX750FT, GN125E, Grand Vitara, KingQuad, LT-F250, DR-Z400SML8, VS1400GLP, RM85LK, DR-Z110K, AN400L, Boulevard M50(VZ800L8), AN400, DR650SE, GSX-S750L8, VS800GLK, RF600R, DR-Z125LL/DR-Z125L, LT-R450/LT-R450Z, VS750 Intruder, DR-Z12LM, V-Strom 800, RM85K, VS1400, RM125T, GSX-R1000R, LT-Z250, Boulevard, V-Strom 650XT Adventure, LT-Z50L, GSX-S750ZL/GSX-S750L, LT-R450, Burgman 200, DR-Z125L, VL800CL/VL800L/VL800TL, TU250XL, DR-Z400EK, AN650, Off Road Play, LT-F300F, DL650A, GSX-8S, AN400K, V-Strom 650, GZ250, GS1150, TL1000R, VZ800/VZ800Z, DL650XA/DL650A, DR125SE, GSX1300R, VZ1500L, AN650AL, Boulevard C50T, GN125E/ GN125ET, JR50, RM100, LT-Z400Z, SV1000K / SV1000SK, VZ1600K, LT-F400F/LT-F400FC, LT-Z400L/LT-Z400ZL, GSX-S1000F, RM125K, GZ250K, SV650L7, GSX-R1000K, GS500, DR-Z400SK, GSX-R1000L, LS650BL7, GSX750F, Swift, DL1050, VL1500 / VL1500T, RM85, VZ800L, GV700GL, Boulevard M109R B.O.S.S. (VZR1800BZL9), DR650SEK, DR-Z400SML9, GSX1300 RK5, Suzuki Boulevard M109R B.O.S.S., GSX1300RAL/GSX1300RAZL, GSX1300BK, GV1200GL, TU250XL8, LT-F500F, DR-Z400SL, Hayabusa(GSX1300RAL8), Esteem, Verona, TU250XL9, GS500K, Reno, GV1400, LT-Z50, GSF400, GS500(GS500H)/GS500F(GS500FH), Boulevard C50 (VL800L9) / Boulevard C50T (VL800TL9), GSF1200S/SA, VL800/VL800C/VL800T, DR-Z400SL8, XL7, VL800BL/VL800CL/VL800L/VL800TL, Boulevard S40 (LS650BL9), RM65, VL1500BL/VL1500TL, GSF1250SA/GSX1250SA, LT-F400FU, GSX-R750L, DR200SE, DR650SEL, JR80, UH200AL, LT-F4WD, RV200L8, DR250F, GSX650FA, GSF1250S, GSF1250SA, DR-Z400K, Touring, RM250/ RM250T, LT-F250FK, VZ800K, SV650K/SV650SK, GSX-S750ZL9 (49st), DR650S, DL1000XAAL9 (V-Strom 1000XT Adventure), DR650SEL8, Sidekick Sport, LT-F400K, GW250L, Grand Vitara XL-7, SX4, RM60, VZ1600, GS500E/GS500ET, DR200SEK, JR50K, GSXS1000FZL9, DR200SL8, Forsa, RV200L9, DR-Z70, GSX-S1000GT+, GSF1200S, DR250SE, DR-Z400SM, GSF1200S/GSF1200SZ, RM-Z450, LT-A400K, Kizashi, GSX-8R, GSX1100, LS650PK, AN650A, Katana, VL800TL, GSX-S1000FAL8, V-Strom 800DE / V-Strom 800DE Adventure, VLR1800/VLR1800T, Forenza, GSX-R1000, GW250/GW250F/GW250Z, GSX-S1000A, GSX-S750, RM125, LT-Z90L/QuadSport Z90, Boulevard S40(LS650BL8 ), GW250FL/GW250ZL, V-Strom 1050, RM250K, UH200L, VL1500, VL800/VL800T/VL800Z, DR350, LT-R450Z, DR-Z110, LT80K, DL650XAL7, LT-A500F/LT-A500FC, GSX-R750K, DL1000AL/DL1000AAL, LT-A400FK, UH200AM2, VZR1800, SV1000 / SV1000S, DL650L, V-Strom 1050XT, DR-Z400SML, RV200L7, RMX450ZL, GSX-S1000, Boulevard C90 B.O.S.S. (VL1500BL8)  / Boulevard C90T(VL1500TL8), GSX600F, LT-A500, GSX-R600K, DL1000L, GSX-S1000AL9/GSXS1000ZAL9/GSXS1000YAL9, DL1000K, LT-A400F/LT-A400FZ, DR-Z125LL, GSX1250FAL, LT-A400F/LT-A400FC/LT-A400FH, AN650K, RM80, SV650L9, DR-Z250, DR350SE, TL1000RK, VL1500L/VL1500BL/VL1500TL/VL1500BTL, QUV620F, GSF600SK, GS500FK, LT-F250F, Business, LT-F250L, AN400AL, LT-F400, LT-A500FK, DS80, DR650SEL9, VL800, RM80T, Boulevard C50(VL800L8) / Boulevard C50T(VL800TL8), RM65K, GS750, Vitara, GSX-R600, VS700, GSX-S1000AL7, RM-Z250K, GSX1300RL, GSX-R600L, GSX-8TT, SV650/SV650S, GSX1300BKA, VZR1800BZL/VZR1800L/VZR1800ZL, RMX250, VL800 / VL800T / VL800C/VL800B, SV650AL9 / SV650XAL9, GSX1250FA, GSX1300RAL, LT-Z250/ LT-Z250Z, DL650, SFV650A, DL650AAL/DL650AL, SP200, GSX, LS650L, LT-F4WDX, Boulevard M50 (VZ800L9), DR200SL9, VZ1500, RM-Z450L, LS650, SP600, GSX-S1000AL8 / GSX-S1000ZAL8, Boulevard M90(VZ1500L8), Burgman 400, Samurai, DR200SEL, LT-Z250K, VS1400GLPK, GSX-S750ZAL8 / GSX-S750L8, GSX250R, GSX750FK, LT-F400F, GSX-S1000FA, RM250, DR-Z250K, LT-Z400/LT-Z400Z, RF900R, RM100K, DR-Z125LK, LT160K, GS550L, SV650AL7, RM85LL, LT-F160, V-Strom 1000 ABS(DL1000AL8) / V-Strom 1000 XT ABS(DL100XAL8), SFV650, GSX-Z750ZAL9 (50st) / GSX-S750YAL9 (50st) / GSX-S750ZL9 (50st), SV650A/SV650SA/SV650SAF, DR200S, DL650XAAL9 (V-Strom 650XT Touring), LT80, DL1000A/DL1000AA, GSX-R1100, RMX450, Family, GS700E, DL650K, GSX-R750W, SV1000S, RM85L, GSX-R600W, GS450, Equator, VZ800, Boulevard C90 B.O.S.S. (VL1500BL9) / Boulevard C90T (VL1500TL9), V-Strom 650XT, GSF1200SK/GSF1200K, Burgman 650, LT-Z50/LT-Z50Z, GSF650SA, SV650AL8, Low Speed Vehicle, DR-Z400SL9, VX800, Aerio, Enduro, LT-F500F/QUADRUNNER, SV650A/SV650SA, LT-Z400K, GSX600FK, GSXS1000SM1, TU250X, DR200SL, VL800K, LS650P, DR-Z125K, LT-Z90, GSXS1000SM0, RM-Z250L, SV650L8, GSF600S, LT-F500FK.
Q: Is the 308GTSi a Ferrari vehicle?

A: Ac Propulsion makes the eBox, and tZero.
Q: Who makes the Street Twin?
Q: Is the MX10 a Alien vehicle?
Q: Who makes the NSX?
A: The Altitude Teardrop is made by Altitude Teardrop.
Q: Who makes the Roller Kit?
A: Yes, Action Enterprises & Fabrication makes the Action Enterprises & Fabrication.
A: The A & K Trailers is made by A & K Trailers.
Volvo makes the following models: CACL, XC40, B5TL, Cab Over Engine HT, S40, FML, VNR (4), VHD, BE, B9TL, 740 Series, WHEB, VNR, 260 Series, WX, WXLL, 940 Series, NE64, VN, EX90, XC60, BXR, V50, EX30 CC, VT, VAH, CNR, B12B, WAH, V70, B9S, F6 w/F7 Cab, WXLM, CWG, EX30, VNM, 9700, B9R, NE42, C30, B7R, V60CC, B8R, FE, B8L, 240 Series, WHL, B13R, VNX, WG, VNC, BRLH, VNL (4), S60, BXRB, B12R, FM10, EC40, 850 Series, F12 w/F7 Cab, V40, B10M, C40, WIA, VNL, NR64, BRH, WCA, WHLB, S90, 960 Series, B9L, V60, WXR, S80, B5R, 760 Series, CNE, C70 / C30, Cab Over Engine LT, B12M, BFE, NR, VS, BXXR, Volvo Trailers, ACL, XC90, V90CC, S70, WHR, C70, S60 Cross Country, XC70, Cab Behind Engine, EX40, V90, 780 Series, NE.
Q: Is the AHS Trailers a Ahs Trailers vehicle?
A: Yes, 2 Golden Eagles makes the 2 GOLDEN EAGLES.
A: The Adagio Collections LLC is made by Adagio Collections Llc.
Q: Is the TF450 a Triumph vehicle?

A: Abastecedora De Tractopartes Y Refacciones makes the ABASTECEDORA DE TRACTOPARTES Y REFACCIONES.
A: Yes, the HR4 is made by Alien.
A: The Action Signs and Billboards is made by Action Signs And Billboards.

Q: Does Aim Trailers make a vehicle called the AIM Trailers?
A: Yes, Alcan Traveler, Inc makes the Van/Cargo.
Advance Mechanical Service makes the following model: Advance Mechanical Service.
Q: Is the ADS Manufacturing a Ads Manufacturing vehicle?

A: The ADVANCED FABRICATORS INC is made by Advanced Fabricators Inc.

A: Yes, the 325iC is made by Bmw.
A: The Adrenaline is made by Adrenaline.


A: Yes, Aleman makes the Aleman.
Q: Who makes the Luxury Edition?


Q: Who makes the RCV?

A: Aero Motorsports makes the DIO, and ZX5.
A: The AHS Trailers is made by Ahs Trailers.
A: The EV6 is made by Alset.

A: Yes, the 7 ENERGY is made by 7 Energy.
Q: Who makes the 801 Trailer Manufacturing?
A: The Mirai is made by Toyota.



Q: Who makes the Standard?
A: The Enclosed/Unenclosed is made by Advanced Trailer Systems.
Q: What models does A1 Food Truck Depot Llc make?

Q: Is the 8C Competizione Spider a Alfa Romeo vehicle?
Q: Who makes the EV6L?
A: The Alpine Industrial, LLC is made by Alpine.
A: Yes, Allstates Production Equipment Company makes the Allstates Production Equipment Company.
A: The AlumaTrek is made by Aluma.
Q: Who makes the Allure?
Q: Is the AG Works International a Ag Works International vehicle?

Q: Is the GSX-8T a Suzuki vehicle?

Q: Does Aaci make a vehicle called the AACI?
Q: What models does Alpine make?
A: 7 Seas Trailers makes the 7 Seas Trailers.
A: Yes, Ferrari makes the 612 Scaglietti.
Q: Does A & L Smokers make a vehicle called the A & L Smokers?
A: 4 X 4 Trailers Ltd makes the 4 X 4 Trailers Ltd.
Q: Who makes the RAINBOW?
A: 55 Grills makes the 55 Grills.

A: Yes, Allianz Sweeper Company makes the Vanguard.
Q: Does Ambush Outdoor Products make a vehicle called the AMBUSH OUTDOOR PRODUCTS?

A: Yes, the Town Car is made by Lincoln.

Q: Does Kia make a vehicle called the Niro?
A: Yes, the 348 ts is made by Ferrari.



A: The Sportage is made by Kia.

Lincoln makes the following models: Nautilus, Zephyr, Mark LT, Town Car, Navigator, Mark, MKX, Blackwood, MKZ, MKC, Corsair, Navigator L, Aviator, Continental, LS, MKT, MKS.



Aas makes the following models: Race Edition, Performance Edition, Sport Edition, Gt Malan, Euro Edition, Kaase Trailers, LLC., Trophy Edition, Cary Faas Racing dba Cfrinc.
A: Alvarez makes the ALVAREZ  REMOLQUE (TRAILER).
A: The ADOC is made by Adoc.

A: Yes, the AAA Marine is made by Aaa Marine.
A: Yes, 17 Creek Enterprises makes the 17 CREEK ENTERPRISES.
Q: Who makes the GSX-S1000GT/GSX-S1000GT+?
Q: Who makes the Agri-Drain Corp?

A: The M37 is made by Infiniti.
Q: Is the 702 TRAILER'S & WELDING LLC a 702 Trailer'S & Welding Llc vehicle?
A: Yes, the ABASTECEDORA DE TRACTOPARTES Y REFACCIONES is made by Abastecedora De Tractopartes Y Refacciones.
A: The EX35 is made by Infiniti.
Q: Who makes the 3 Custom Solutions?
A: The AEC Enterprises is made by Aec Enterprises.
A: Yes, the AEC Enterprises is made by Aec Enterprises.
Q: Who makes the RT?
A: The TAL*/TUL* is made by Aluminum Model.
A: Yes, the ACES CHOPPERWORKS is made by Aces Chopperworks.
A: The Turtleback Adventure LLC is made by Adventure.




Q: What models does Admiral Drive Systems make?
Q: Is the Loyale a Subaru vehicle?
A: The GR Corolla is made by Toyota.
Q: Is the Razor Back a American Hawg Choppers Inc vehicle?

American Bos Corp makes the following model: American Bos Corp.
A: Yes, the SXS1000M (Pioneer 1000) is made by Honda.
Alpha Cargo Trailers Llc makes the following model: Alpha Cargo Trailers LLC.
A: Yes, Alpine Trailers, Llc makes the Alpine Trailers, LLC.
A: The AI Trailers is made by Ai Trailers.
Western Star makes the following models: 5900, 5800, Warrior, 4900E, 48X RHD Chassis, 4900, 3700, New 4900 Chassis, 57X Chassis, 49X Chassis, 6900, 47X RHD Chassis, 4700, 4800, New 4700 Chassis, 49X RHD Chassis, New 4800 Chassis, 3800, 5700, 47X Chassis, LSVW.
Q: Does 321Trailers make a vehicle called the 321Trailers?
A: 5G Modular makes the 5G Modular.
Q: What models does Porsche make?


Aga Gas Central, Inc makes the following model: Utility Trailer.

A: The Model S is made by Tesla.
Jaguar makes the following models: I-PACE, F-PACE, XE, XJ8, XK, XK8, Vanden Plas, X-Type, XJ, F-TYPE, XJ6, XF, XJ12, S-Type, XJS, XJR, E-PACE, Black Jaguar.


Q: Who makes the AL90DB?
Q: Is the S2C 106 Conventional Cab & Chassis a Freightliner vehicle?

A: Action Industrial Studio makes the Action Industrial Studio.
Q: Who makes the Enviro 200?



A: Yes, Ameratrail makes the AmeraTrail.


Q: Is the EV6 a Alset vehicle?
Q: Who makes the 90?


Q: Does Abs make a vehicle called the ENERGY ABSORPTION SYSTEMS?
Q: Does Allbetter make a vehicle called the Allbetter?
Q: Is the Concorde/LHS a Chrysler vehicle?
Q: Is the American Best Corporation a American Best Corporation vehicle?
A: Alumina Trailers makes the ALUMINA TRAILERS.


Adagio Collections Llc makes the following model: Adagio Collections LLC.
Q: Who makes the A2M2 Trailers?
Q: Does Aero Teardrops, Llc make a vehicle called the Aero Teardrops, LLC?

Q: Is the AAA Trailer Sales LLC a Aaa Trailer Sales Llc vehicle?

Q: What models does Volvo make?

A: Yes, the Armada is made by Nissan.
Q: What models does Allroad make?
A: The 55 Grills is made by 55 Grills.


Q: What models does Allied Welding Services make?
Advance Engineered Products makes the following model: Advance Engineered Products.

A: The Enviro 500 is made by Alexander Dennis Limited.

Q: Who makes the Allbetter?

Q: Is the Escalade ESV a Cadillac vehicle?
Q: Who makes the ABCMFG, Inc?


Q: Who makes the CT (Granite)?
A: Yes, Abc Manufacturing makes the ABC Manufacturing.


Acela, Inc makes the following model: ACELA, INC.
A: Yes, the Sebring is made by Chrysler.
A: The A-1 Custom Trailer aka Tow Master is made by A-1 Custom Trailer Aka Tow Master.


Q: Who makes the AG Works International?



Q: What models does Airlite Trailers, Llc make?

Q: Does Ram make a vehicle called the Ramptek Trailers?
A: The ACE Metalworks is made by Ace Metalworks.

Q: Is the M37 a Infiniti vehicle?

Q: What models does Ace Metalworks make?
A: Yes, the American Best Corporation is made by American Best Corporation.
A: All Star Trailers makes the ALL STAR TRAILERS FABRICATION, and All Star Trailers.
Q: Is the Air-Tow Trailers a Air-Tow Trailers vehicle?

A: The 801 Trailer Manufacturing is made by 801 Trailer Manufacturing.

Q: Who makes the Exoalloy LLC?


Q: Does Alcan Trailers, Llc make a vehicle called the Alcan Trailers, LLC?


A: The GX is made by Lexus.
A: The 124 Spider is made by Fiat.
A: Western Star makes many models including the 5900, 5800, Warrior, 4900E, 48X RHD Chassis, 4900, 3700, and New 4900 Chassis.
A: The FLHTCUTG / Tri Glide Ultra Classic is made by Harley-Davidson.
A: The Model X is made by Tesla.
A: Yes, Admiral Trailers makes the Admiral Trailers.

Q: Does American Hauler make a vehicle called the American Hauler?
A: Yes, the AHGO FOOD TRAILERS is made by Ahgo Food Trailers.
A: The Advance Trailer Solutions Inc. is made by Advanced Trailer Solutions.
A: Yes, the Pyramid Manufacturing Co. Trailer is made by Ram.
A: Rivian makes the R1S, R2, R1T, EDV, and RCV.
Q: What models does Allmand Brothers make?
Q: Does Air Responder make a vehicle called the Air Responder?
A: The ADVANCED BOAT is made by Advanced Boat.

Absolute Trailer Sales makes the following model: Absolute Trailer Sales.
Q: What models does Almax Holding Limited make?

A: The Razor Back is made by American Hawg Choppers Inc.
Q: Who makes the Adams MFG?
A: The ABI Caravans Ltd is made by Abi Caravans Ltd.
Aero makes the following models: Aerovault, Utility, 1100i, 50/100, BOBBER, RPM Aerovault, AEROPUP Trailers LLC, Luxury Edition, Luggage, AEROTECH COATINGS LLC, BOARD AND TRACK, FM Aerovault, Aerobilt Manufacturing, Aeroglas Trailer, ZX5, 950, LET'S GO AERO, Aero Trailers, RAINBOW, Aero Build LLC, Golf, DIO, Sport, Special, 1100, Aero Flite, Vector, CHOPPER, 850, Aeroswint Trailers, Aero Teardrops, LLC.
Q: Who makes the Allegheny Trailers?
Q: What models does All Custom Fabrications make?
Q: Who makes the ACTIVEDOGS?
A: Yes, the ADVANCED FABRICATORS INC is made by Advanced Fabricators Inc.
Advanced Ev makes the following models: Low Speed Cargo, Golf, Golf Cargo, Low Speed Car, Classic, Advent HD, Advent.
Q: Is the Advanced Metal Fabrication and Machine, Inc. a Advance Metal Fabrication And Machine vehicle?
Q: Who makes the Ameri-Camp Trailer?
A: Yes, Alko makes the 1056.



Aberdeen Power Group makes the following model: Aberdeen Power Group.
Q: Is the Monaco a Dodge vehicle?
Q: Is the AMAZE-N-TOW a Amaze-N-Tow vehicle?
Q: Who makes the LIBERTY CABINS?

A: Yes, the MX10 is made by 3Pluscoco.


A: The JAMCO USA is made by Amc.
Q: Is the Impreza a Subaru vehicle?


Q: Who makes the ProMaster 1500?
Q: Is the 4 Wide a 4 Wide vehicle?
A: Yes, Absolute Concepts makes the Absolute Concepts.

A: The Routan is made by Volkswagen.
Q: Is the BRZ a Subaru vehicle?
Q: Is the Aluminex Fabrication a Aluminex Fabrication vehicle?
Q: Who makes the XM3100?
A: The 3&1 Enterprises, LLC dba Impact Trailers is made by 3&1 Enterprises, Llc Dba Impact Trailers.

Q: Is the ADVANCED FIELD SERVICES, LLC a Advanced Field Services, Llc vehicle?


Q: Is the Lyriq a Cadillac vehicle?
Q: Who makes the AMERICAN CUSTOM TRAILERS?

Q: Is the Utility a Ace vehicle?
A: A Smith Gt Bentley makes the A Smith GT Bentley.
Q: Who makes the Absolute Performance?
A: Yes, Adams Mfg makes the Adams MFG.
Q: Does Acs make a vehicle called the Amacsa?

Ag Industrial, Inc makes the following model: AG Industrial, Inc.
Q: Does All Marine Trailers make a vehicle called the All Marine Trailers?





A: The Advanced Striping Equipment is made by Advanced Striping Equipment.

A: Yes, the 505 Fabrication LLC is made by 505 Fabrication.
A: America Ev makes many models including the 1939 Roadster, Other, 1932 California Roadster, EV Luxe, MOKEE, and EV Wagon.
A: Yes, the Classic Articulated is made by Abu.


A: Yes, the MX-6 is made by Mazda.

Q: Who makes the LX?
Q: Is the Albright Bikes a Albright Bikes vehicle?

Q: Is the Alfa Cargo LLC a Alfa Cargo Llc vehicle?
A: Yes, the 7 Sons Construction is made by 7 Sons Construction.
Q: Who makes the Aeroglas Trailer?

A: The ALWAYS READY CART CARE LLC is made by Always Ready Cart Care Llc.
Q: Who makes the Advanced Metal Products, Inc?

Amd makes the following models: Ranger X, F350A.
Q: Is the XC40 a Volvo vehicle?


A: Yes, Abd Equipment & Parts Llc makes the ABD EQUIPMENT & PARTS LLC.

Q: Who makes the KING RACE TRAILERS?

Q: Is the 147 a Lamborghini vehicle?
A: The A & F TRAILER MFG INC is made by A & F Trailer Mfg Inc.

Q: Who makes the J2X?
Q: What models does 3 Custom Solutions make?
A: Yes, A To Z Auto makes the A to Z Auto.

A: Yes, the Air-Flo is made by Air-Flo.
A: Yes, 643 Enterprise makes the 643 ENTERPRISE.
A: Yes, Aec Enterprises makes the AEC Enterprises.
Q: Who makes the ADM MANUFACTURING?
A: Yes, the Amanti is made by Kia.

A: American Farrier Systems Llc makes the American Farrier Systems LLC.

A: Yes, 5R Ranch Trailers makes the 5R Ranch Trailers.
A: Yes, the Compass is made by Jeep.


Q: Does Action Equipment make a vehicle called the Action Equipment?
Q: Is the AEC Enterprises a Aec Enterprises vehicle?
Q: Who makes the A to Z Auto?
A: Yes, 3 Custom Solutions makes the 3 Custom Solutions.


Q: Who makes the MH3?

A: The ALL STAR TRAILERS FABRICATION is made by All Star Trailers.
Admiration Homes makes the following model: ADMIRATION HOMES TRAILER.
Q: Who makes the Chopper?
Q: Who makes the Biturbo?







Q: Who makes the Cryogenic Trailer?
Q: Is the EV4 a Alset vehicle?




A: Yes, the Thunderbike is made by Adly.
Q: Who makes the Aero Teardrops, LLC?
Q: Who makes the Delta?
Q: Is the Town Car a Lincoln vehicle?
A: The American Airboat Corporation is made by American Airboat Corporation.



Aj'S makes the following model: AJ'S.
A: The 5G Modular is made by 5G Modular.
Q: Does Alc Manufacturing make a vehicle called the ALC Manufacturing?
A: Yes, the LR4 is made by Land Rover.
A: Yes, Adventure makes the Adventure Sports Products, Inc Trailer.

Q: Does Ambers make a vehicle called the Ambers?
Q: Who makes the XLSV 4500?
Q: Does Aero make a vehicle called the Aerovault?
Q: Who makes the All Steel Trailer, LLC?
Q: Who makes the ACES CHOPPERWORKS?


Adventure Coast, Llc makes the following model: ADVENTURE.

Q: Who makes the Ace Custom Trailers?
Q: Is the Altec Industries, Inc. a Altec vehicle?
A: Yes, the SXS1000M (Pioneer 1000) is made by Honda.

Q: Does 4 Star Fabrication make a vehicle called the 4 Star Fabrication Trailer?

A: The VZR1800L/VZR1800ZL is made by Suzuki.


Academi Training Center makes the following model: Academi Training Center.

Q: Does Triumph make a vehicle called the Speed Four?
Q: Who makes the Miller?

A: Chrysler makes many models including the Concorde/LHS, Sebring, Dynasty, SALON, Voyager, Grand Caravan, FIFTH AVENUE, and Intrepid.
A: 360 Custom Trailers makes the 360 Custom Trailers.
A: Alien makes many models including the HR4, Roller Kit, Sport/Touring, MX10, NC09, MH3, B01, and HR2.

Q: What models does Alpine Welding & Fabrication Inc make?


A: The Acker-Built is made by Acker-Built.
Q: Who makes the Alexander's Machine and Maintenance Service Company Inc.?
A: Yes, After-Market Specialties makes the AFTER-MARKET SPECIALTIES.

A: The ACES CHOPPERWORKS is made by Aces Chopperworks.



Q: Who makes the 1939 Roadster?
Q: What models does Aim Trailers make?

A: Yes, the F-PACE is made by Jaguar.
A: Yes, Amacsa makes the Amacsa.
A & R Custom Trailers makes the following model: A & R Custom Trailers.


A: Yes, the RCV is made by Rivian.

Aero Moto makes the following models: Luxury Edition, 1100i, Golf, DIO, 850, Sport, 1100, 950, ZX5.
Q: Does Air Easy Llc Dba Aventura-X make a vehicle called the EV2000?
A: Yes, the Advanced Metal Fabrication and Machine, Inc. is made by Advance Metal Fabrication And Machine.

A: The All Seasons Manufacturing is made by All Seasons Manufacturing.


Q: What models does American Custom Coach make?


A: Yes, the A & F TRAILER MFG INC is made by A & F Trailer Mfg Inc.
A: The Cumberland Adventure Trailers, LLC is made by Adventure Trailers.
A: Aerotech Coatings Llc makes the AEROTECH COATINGS LLC.
Q: Is the K3 Series a Kenworth vehicle?
A: Yes, the Texas Trailer Cabin is made by Abi.






A: The 365 is made by Peterbilt.
A: American Hauler makes the American Hauler.


Amacsa makes the following model: Amacsa.
A: The Tradewind is made by Airstream.
A: The FABTECH, LLC is made by Abt.
Q: Does Alpine make a vehicle called the Alpine Trailers, LLC?
Q: Is the Delta a Alliance Rv vehicle?
A: Harley-Davidson makes many models including the FXDR 114, Road Glide Custom 103, CVO Dyna Wide Glide 2, Street Glide Special, FLHTCUTG / Tri Glide Ultra Classic, Nightster Special, Dyna Wide Glide 105th Anniversary, and 1200 Custom.
Q: Is the A & K Trailers a A & K Trailers vehicle?

Q: Who makes the Activity Trailer?



Q: Is the 280 Trailers a 280 Trailers vehicle?
A: Yes, the AirBurners is made by Airburners.
A: Yes, A & W Trailor Manufacture makes the A & W TRAILOR MANUFACTURE.
Q: Does American Hawg Choppers Inc make a vehicle called the Hawg Pounder?


Q: Does Lamborghini make a vehicle called the 147?
A: Yes, the JAMCO USA is made by Amc.

A: Alameda Trailer Sales makes the Alameda Trailer Sales.


A: Yes, the Prostreet is made by All American Manufacturing Llc.
A: Yes, the S40 is made by Volvo.
Q: Is the Amanti a Kia vehicle?
A: Yes, the Advanced Fabrication is made by Advanced Fabrication.

A: Yes, All American Manufacturing Llc makes the Prostreet.
Q: Who makes the A & L TRAILERS?
Q: Who makes the Alpine Trailers, LLC?

Q: Does Aero Trailers make a vehicle called the Aero Trailers?
A: Yes, the Roller Kit is made by Alien.
A: Ace Motorcycle makes the Ace Motorcycle.

Q: What models does Land Rover make?
Q: Who makes the 3 STAR MFG LTD?

A: Yes, Ahs Trailers makes the AHS Trailers.
A: Yes, the Diablo is made by Lamborghini.
A: Yes, the 17 CREEK ENTERPRISES is made by 17 Creek Enterprises.
Q: Who makes the AMBUSH OUTDOOR PRODUCTS?

A: Yes, the Utility is made by Ace Mfg.
Q: Is the Strada a Fiat vehicle?
A: American Electric Vehicle Company, Llc makes the Multipurpose, Passenger, and Truck.
Q: Does Abcmfg, Inc make a vehicle called the ABCMFG, Inc?
A: Yes, the Almighty Trailers LLC is made by Almighty Trailers Llc.


A: The AlumaTrek is made by Alumatrek.
A: Yes, the Ability Metals is made by Ability Metals.
Q: Is the All Day Lawn a All Day Lawn vehicle?
Q: Is the 7X Offroad a 7X Offroad vehicle?
A: The F 900 is made by Bmw.
Aaa Tiny Home makes the following model: AAA Tiny Home.
Q: What models does Subaru make?
Q: Does A-1 Custom Trailer Aka Tow Master make a vehicle called the A-1 Custom Trailer aka Tow Master?
A: The ACcustomX is made by Accustomx.

A: Yes, the 520 is made by Peterbilt.
Q: What models does A To Z Auto make?

A: The Patton is made by A & O.

A: The 540d is made by Bmw.

Q: Is the Magna Van a Gmc vehicle?
Q: Is the Alfred Industries a Alfred Industries vehicle?
Q: Is the Aeroglas Trailer a Aeroglas vehicle?
A: The Advanced Portable Buildings & Trailers is made by Advanced Portable Buildings & Trailers.
Q: What models does 62Dnc Trailer make?

A: Yes, the 500X is made by Fiat.

Q: Does Volkswagen make a vehicle called the ID.4?
Q: Who makes the 3&1 Enterprises, LLC dba Impact Trailers?

Q: Who makes the EV6?

A: Yes, the DIO is made by Aero Moto.
Q: Who makes the Enviro 500 EV?
Alfa Romeo makes the following models: Giulia (952), Milano, 4C, 8C Competizione Spider, Tonale, Stelvio, Spider, GTV6, 164.
Q: Does American Farrier Systems Llc make a vehicle called the American Farrier Systems LLC?
Q: Who makes the CHOPPER?
A: Yes, Alleykat Kustoms Of Arizona makes the Kustom.
A: Abi Caravans Ltd makes the ABI Caravans Ltd.

Q: What models does Alumina Trailers make?
Q: What models does All Star Trailers make?
Q: Is the Dynasty a Chrysler vehicle?
A: Yes, the VT750 (Shadow Ace 750) is made by Honda.
Q: Is the United Alloy, Inc. a Alloy vehicle?
A: The GSX-S1000GT/GSX-S1000GT+ is made by Suzuki.


Q: What models does Acp Trailers make?
A: Yes, the AFAB Petroleum Equipment & Steel Fabrication is made by Afab Petroleum Equipment & Steel Fabrication.
Q: Who makes the Adrenaline?

Q: Does Am General make a vehicle called the MV-1?
Q: Is the EX35 a Infiniti vehicle?
Q: Who makes the Alloy Custom Products?
321Trailers makes the following model: 321Trailers.
A: Yes, the K3 Series is made by Kenworth.
Q: What models does 3Pluscoco make?
American Airboat Corporation makes the following model: American Airboat Corporation.
Q: Does Hyundai make a vehicle called the Genesis?


A: The Classic is made by Advanced Ev.
A: Ajax Tocco Magnethermic Corporation makes the AJAX TOCCO MAGNETHERMIC CORPORATION.
A: Yes, the Advance Mechanical Service is made by Advance Mechanical Service.


A: Yes, Allvan Corporation makes the Allvan Corporation.
A: Alfa Cargo Llc makes the Alfa Cargo LLC.
Q: Does All Star Solutions make a vehicle called the All Star Solutions?
A: Accurate Cycle Engineering makes the ACCURATE CYCLE ENGINEERING.
Q: Does Adly make a vehicle called the RT?
A: Yes, the ST50-19/ST125-19 is made by Aci.
A: The CG150 is made by Honda.
Q: What models does Advanced Customs & Conversions make?


Q: Who makes the CV (Granite)?


Q: Does 33 East Maintenance Inc make a vehicle called the 33 East Maintenance Inc?
Q: What models does Allroad Orv make?

A: Adu 100 makes the ADU 100.
Q: Who makes the 818?
A: Yes, the T800 is made by Kenworth.


Q: Is the Axys a Polaris vehicle?
Q: Who makes the AMEN CHASSIS WORKS?
A: Yes, the Cumberland Adventure Trailers, LLC is made by Adventure.
A: Yes, the Navigator is made by Lincoln.
Q: Does Ace Trailers make a vehicle called the Ace Trailers?
A: Yes, the A & E Fabricators is made by A & E Fabricators.
A: Dodge makes many models including the Monaco, Ram Wagon, Nitro, Raider, Caravan/Grand Caravan, Sprinter, ST.REGIS, and Spirit.
Q: What models does Aces Chopperworks make?
A: Yes, the ACME CRYOGENICS, INC. is made by Acme.

Q: Is the AirTech Tools a Airtech Tools vehicle?
A: Yes, Aluminex Fabrication makes the Aluminex Fabrication.



A: The Chopper is made by All American Manufacturing Llc.
A: Yes, the Fabtech is made by Abt.
Hyundai makes the following models: Genesis, Palisade, Ioniq, Veloster N, Elantra GT, Ioniq 6 N, XG300, Accent, Excel, Kona, Equus, Veracruz, Scoupe, Santa Fe XL, Sonata, Elantra N, Hyundai Steel Industries, Inc., Ioniq 9, Tiburon, Nexo, Veloster, XG350, Elantra, Entourage, Azera, Kona N, Santa Fe Sport, Santa Cruz, Ioniq 6, Ioniq 5 N, Tucson, Elantra Touring, Genesis Coupe, Venue, Xcient, Stellar, Ioniq 5, Hyundai Translead Trailers, Pony, Santa Fe.
A: Advanced Ev makes many models including the Low Speed Cargo, Golf, Golf Cargo, Low Speed Car, Classic, Advent HD, and Advent.
Q: Is the A to Z Auto a A To Z Auto vehicle?
Q: Is the A & M FABRICATIONS a A & M Fabrications vehicle?
Q: Who makes the LiV9DP passenger van?
A: Aga Gas Central, Inc makes the Utility Trailer.
Q: Who makes the CG150?


Q: What models does Dodge make?
Q: Who makes the 702 TRAILER'S & WELDING LLC?

Q: Does Affordable Aluminum make a vehicle called the Affordable Aluminum?

Q: Is the ADVANCED BOAT a Advanced Boat vehicle?

Air Responder makes the following model: Air Responder.
A: Yes, the ADAPTIVE HUMANITY LLC is made by Adaptive Humanity Llc.


A: Yes, the 5M Trailers is made by 5M Trailers.



A: Yes, the Acme Group is made by Acme Group.




Q: Who makes the Enviro 500 Superlo EV?
Alloy Custom Vacuum Products Inc makes the following model: Cryogenic Trailer.
Q: Who makes the BOBBER?
A: The Absolute Trailer Sales is made by Absolute Trailer Sales.
A: Yes, the Golf is made by Aero Moto.
Alumaice makes the following model: AlumaIce.

A: The Air is made by Lucid.
A: Yes, Albright Bikes makes the Albright Bikes.
Q: Does American Bos Corp make a vehicle called the American Bos Corp?


A: Yes, the F350A is made by Amd.
A: The Absolute Performance is made by Abs.
